CHAPTER1
OUTPUT OF AN 
ECONOMY
CONCEPT OF OUTPUT
What would we understand if we were told that today the largest economy in the world is 
the US? Surely, we would wonder about the parameter of such a—land area, population 
or output!
In every economy, ‘goods’ are being produced, that is, raw materials are being converted 
into finished goods, agricultural crops, forestry, livestock, steel, cement, cars, cycles, bread 
etc. Similarly, services’ are also being rendered like banking, insurance, shipping etc. All 
of these have a monetary value in the local currency like the USD in the US and the INR 
in India.
Thus, output per se implies aggregation of monetary value of all the goods and services 
produced in an economy in a given time period which may be a quarter (3 months), half- 
a-year (6 months) or a year (12 months).
In  other  words,  output’  includes  all  goods  and  services  exchanged  for money. For 
example, a fisherman catching fishes, may use some of it for self-consumption and the 
remaining may be used for selling in the market; thus, the monetary value of all the fishes 
would be considered under the concept of output.
It sounds simple so far, but delving a little deeper output may as well comprise of 
intermediate goods like steel and cement, which in turn are inputs for other goods referred 
to as ‘final goods’. These final goods cannot be put to further use, except for use like cars, 
buildings etc.
If we were to include both the intermediate and final goods in our definition of output, 
then that would effectively mean counting the same thing twice and in the process inflate 
the output of an economy. For example, production of wheat and its milling as flour 
results in the making of bread; thus for output purposes, only the monetary value of bread 
would be considered and not that of wheat and flour. Therefore, we can conclusively 
derive that the output should have only final goods in order to avoid double counting.
But, what about a sale of second hand goods like say a second hand car? Should they 
be reflected in the output of an economy? The answer is no, as they have already been 
included once when manufactured and therefore does not amount to a fresh production. 
Thus, output of an economy is the monetary value of the final goods and services in a 
given time period.4 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The production of goods and rendering of services are referred to as economic activities; 
but who are the producers of goods and services in an economy? They could either be 
individuals, small and petty businesses, private companies like the Tatas, Birlas, Reliance 
Industries etc., or even government like the public sector companies ONGC, SAIL etc., 
or even foreign companies like Nokia, Sony, Samsung etc.
If we were to take the monetary value of all the final goods and services produced 
within the geographic boundary of a country, irrespective of who the producer of the 
goods and services are, then it is called ‘domestic output’ of the economy.
Thus, in the Indian context, domestic output consists of the monetary value of all final 
goods  and  services  produced/rendered  by  individuals,  private  sector,  public  sector  and 
foreign companies.
Having looked into who are the producers in an economy, let us look now at how the 
goods are produced. In order to produce goods, at first we need some place/infrastructure 
where the goods can be produced. Thus we would need to have a some land (or building); 
money as seed capital, in order to buy machines and raw material, invest in marketing, 
arrange for transportation etc.; labour for production and then a person whom we call the 
entrepreneur as the producer of goods. These are known as ‘factors of production’ in an 
economy.
Thus, in a ‘production life cycle’, each factor of production will have an associated 
cost—be  it  the  seed  capital  for  investment,  rent  for  the  place/infrastructure,  or  for 
that  matter  the  labour  wages  and  salaries;  as  an  entrepreneur,  the  profit  that  an 
entrepreneur gains at the end of the day, is principally for the risk that he/she takes for 
production.
It is important to note that profit is a cost for any economic activity; but then what 
is cost is also income for factors of production. For example, rent is an income for land, 
interest is the income for capital, wages and salaries are the income for workers and 
supervisors and profit per se is the income for the risks taken by the entrepreneur. Let us 
illustrate this example further with numbers. Following are the details of a manufacturing 
company:
Land (rent) ₹ 10,000
Labour (Wages & Salaries) ₹ 1,000
Capital (Interest) ₹ 750
Entrepreneur (Profit) ₹ 500
Total ₹ 12,250
In this example, the totalc ost( allc osts in cluded)to  an entrepreneur is ₹1 2 ,250;wh at ist he 
                                   
output!Itisthesameamountas₹12,250;and whatistheincomeofallthefactorsofproduction!
                           
Itisagain thesameas₹12,250.Thisbasically meansthatoutput/costisincome forfactorsof
                           
production.Thus,outputand theincomearetwo sidesofthesamecoin.Whetherwesay output
                   
orincome,itimpliesthesamething.
                 
At times, output is also referred as the product of an economy, (quantity multiplied 
                   
by factorcost)thusdomesticproductand domesticincomeofan economy arethesame.OUTPUT OF AN ECONOMY 5
So far, we has discussed about the domestic output/product/income, but what about 
the income of Indians staying abroad? For a more comprehensive analysis of the output, it 
.$ necessary to look beyond the geographic boundaries that would include the income of 
all the Indian nationals irrespective of the country they currently reside.
But if we include the income of Indian nationals outside the country, it will also be 
logical to deduct the income of foreign nationals residing in our country. This is also 
referred to as Net Factor Income From Abroad (NFIAD). Thus,
Domestic Product + Income of Indians Abroad - Income of Foreigners in India = 
National Product
or
Domestic Product (+/-) NFIAD = National Product
Net factor income from abroad can be positive or negative depending up on which is more— 
income of Indian nationals abroad or income of foreign nationals in India, that is, national 
product is less than the domestic product, if the income of Indian nationals abroad is less 
than the income of foreigners in India and vice versa.
An increased foreign currency denominated debt of a country or selling domestic assets 
to foreign entities would tend to reduce the national product leaving domestic product 
unchanged.
CONCEPT OF DEPRECIATION
The  output  of  an economy also consists of production of machines/machineries which 
are consumed every year, referred to as ‘depreciation and much of the output of such 
machines  could  be  replacement  in  nature  and  not  signifying  additions  to  machine  or 
capital stock in the economy.
Let us assume that cars are being produced in an economy and there is also depreciation 
of cars , that  is ,the  car s would eventually ha ve to  be replaced a fter t heir shell -life .For
example, a car is priced at ₹ 3,00,000 and ha s alif eof ,say 10 years .Then ,depreciation or
                           
consumption ) of car is ₹ 30,000 a year.Thus,if the output of an economy  ignores
                       
consumption (ordepreciation)ofitsmachinestocks,itisreferred asa‘gross’conceptand 
               
ifitisaccounted foritisknown as‘net’concept.
                   
Accordingly, there is Gross National Product (GNP) and  Gross Domestic Product
(GDP).
Hence,
           
GNP-Depreciation =NetNationalProduct(NNP)
         
GDP— Depreciation =NetDomesticProduct(NDP)
                       
Thus, there are four concepts in the output of an economy—GNP, GDP, NNP and NDP.
                 
Let us now try to understand which method is technically the best measure of growth.
                               
Clearly,itistheNNPasitfirstcoversallthenationalsofacountry and isalso anet6 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
increase after depreciation. It is also 
called  as  “National  Income”  of  an 
economy.
But  NNP/GNP  are  gradually 
losing  significance  since  countries 
have  high  external  debts  that  are 
serviced  through  internal  resources 
which tends to increase outflows and 
reduce  GNP  of  a  country,  leaving 
GDP unaffected. Similarly, the sale of 
assets to foreign entities will also have
similar impact.  Further  remittances  have  become  significant  in  economies  like India
affecting GNP not seen as a correct way to judge output of an economy.
GDP—AS A MEASURE OF GROWTH
India, US and most other economies have switched over to GDP for measuring growth 
of  their  respective  economies.  Let  us  recall  the  concept  of  ‘monetary  value  of  goods 
and services’ as output which has been discussed in the beginning of the chapter.
But this monetary value can be viewed from two perspectives— factor cost (It is also 
the income for the factors of production) and market price for example the price of a car 
as illustrated earlier. To further elucidate, the market price is the price paid for a goods or 
services in the market. Let us discuss the differences between the factor cost and market 
prices?
We all know that the government levies taxes (and also gives subsidies) on different 
goods and services  before they reach  the market.  In  India, excise duty  is payable on 
manufacturing of goods and similarly, service tax is payable on services provided (we will 
discuss these later in the Chapter on government finances).
Now,
Factor Cost + Indirect Taxes - Subsidies = Market Price
or
Factor Cost + Net Taxes (as subsidies can never be equal or more than taxes in an 
economy) = Market Price.
Now the question, that in the monetary value whether factor cost or market price should 
be taken?
The output measured at market prices can be increased by increasing taxes in an economy. 
This does not necessarily imply that more goods and services have been produced in the 
economy. Output of an economy is worked out both at market prices as well as factor cost, but 
for growth purposes, output at factor cost is considered. This means that increased value in 
production of goods and services in an economy is captured at factor cost and not at market 
prices.OUTPUT OF AN ECONOMY 7
The difference between the output at market price and at factor cost is tax burden on 
an economy, which is useful for cross-country comparisons.
Can output at market price and factor cost be the same? The answer is yes, in cases of 
exceptional circumstances where the taxes are equal to subsidies or in utopian circumstances 
where taxes and subsidies both are zero. This concept is more of an academic relevance 
rather than of practical utility.
The moment we start talking about the monetary value either at market prices or factor 
cost, the concept of inflation becomes important. In simpler terms, inflation is increasing 
prices and during inflationary times it tends to inflate the value in nominal terms. Suppose 
inflation is at 10 per cent, it implies that the price is going up by 10 per cent, that is to say 
that the factor cost is also increasing, which would increase the output, even though there 
is no physical increase in the production of goods and services. It is because of this reason 
that the output measured at factor cost would have to be adjusted to actually reflect the 
increased production of goods and services in an economy. The adjustment is a statistical 
exercise which is done by using the GDP deflator that gives the output at factor cost in 
terms of constant prices’.
The output at constant prices refers to the output obtained after being adjusted for 
inflation. To further explain, suppose we do not adjust for inflation and the output growth 
for an year is 9 per cent so is inflation. It means that the output has not increased, but their 
prices have increased. Without adjusting for inflation, the increase in output has little or 
no significance and actually could be misleading.
This adjustment for inflation is also known as ‘real’ or otherwise it is ‘nominal’ and 
is generic in nature. Real growth is adjusted for inflation while nominal growth ignores 
adjustment for inflation. Growth by definition has to be ‘real’.
Similarly, there is ‘nominal’ and ‘real’ interest rate, income, wages, but there is no 
concept of nominal and real growth as growth by definition has to be adjusted for inflation. 
This is implied in the meaning of the word growth itself.
The use of the word ‘growth’ in the Indian context implies increase in GDP at factor 
cost at constant prices.
In  India,  the  entire  computation  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Central  Statistical 
Organisation  (CSO),  Government  of  India.  The  estimates  of  growth  are  provided  by 
the  organisation  on  quarterly  basis  at  the  end  March,  June,  September  and  December 
every year and the annual growth estimates are provided during April-March, every year 
which is also referred to as the financial year (calendar year is January-December). All the 
government and corporate accounting in India is with reference to the financial year.
What we have covered so far is a simple exposure to ‘National Income Aggregates’, 
also referred as ‘National Income Accounting’ for students who do not have exposure to 
economics.
There are three methods of computation of National Income, namely output method, 
income method and expenditure method relevant for the students who want to pursue a 
career in economics. The bird eye view of three methods of national income accounting is 
highlighted in following diagram.8 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Method of Measurement of Nl: At a Glance
1.4 GDP/NATIONAL ACCOUNTS REVISED SERIES
WITH 2017-18 AS BASE YEAR
The  structure of  economic  activities changes  over time due to changes in structure of 
production  and  demand  in  the  economy.  On  production  side,  the  production  pattern 
changes along with changes in technology and innovations in the system leading to change 
in the consumption pattern over time. The changes in relative prices stimulate changes 
in  the  consumption  and  production  choices.  Therefore,  to  account  for  these  structural 
changes and to update the prices, the rebasing exercise is needed after a certain period. 
The exercise of rebasing national accounts brings up a fresh lot of information about the 
changes in economic structure of the economy, along with switching over to new base 
prices. This also helps in judging the size of the economy, correction of biases and looking 
afresh at the relative importance of sectors in the economy.
The recent introduction of new series of National Accounts by Central Statistics Office 
(CSO) revised the base year for National Accounts Statistics to 2017-18 form 2011-12
The new series of national accounts is an improvement upon old base in terms of its 
comprehensive coverage of corporate sector and government activities and incorporation 
of recent data generated through National Sample Surveys. It also brings up some changes 
in  methods  of  evaluation,  approaches  to  account  economic  activities,  introduced  new 
concepts and incorporation of new classifications.OUTPUT OF AN ECONOMY 9
Earlier “GDP at factor cost” was known as simply the “GDP” in India. It is nothing 
but sum of the factor costs incurred during the process of turning out economy’s output 
for the concerned year. Thus, it is a compilation of wages, interests, salaries, profits etc. 
This concept - GDP at factor cost - used to be expressed both in constant prices (with 
2004-05 prices as the base year prices) and current prices. For most purposes, including 
academic works, GDP at factor cost in constant prices was used as “GDP”. Further by 
adding net indirect taxes (ie. product taxes - product subsidies), GDP at market prices was 
also reported in the National Account Statistics.
In  the  revised  series,  as  is  the  practice  internationally,  industry-wise  estimates  are 
presented as Gross Value Added (GVA) at basic prices, while “GDP at market prices” 
will be referred to as “GDP”. GVA at basic prices can be referred to as GVA at producer 
price and GDP at market price as well as GDP at buyer price. Estimates of GVA at factor 
cost (earlier called GDP at factor cost) can be compiled by using the estimates of GVA 
at basic prices and production taxes less subsidies. It would result in an effect on the size 
of GVA compared to GDP at factor cost, which may be different for different sectors. 
For example, net production tax being positive in manufacturing would result in higher 
GVA than GDP in the sector. New growth figures for GVA at basic prices would also 
carry an impression of tax and subsidies which was not the case in GDP at factor cost. 
The  production  tax  has  been  distinguished  from  product  tax.  For  example:  production 
taxes like land revenues, stamps and registration fees and tax on profession etc. and excise 
tax, sales tax, service tax and import and export duties etc. are included in product tax. 
A similar distinction is also made between production and product subsidies, for instance, 
former includes subsidies to railways, input subsidies to farmers, subsidies to village and 
small industries,  administrative subsidies  to corporations or cooperatives etc. and latter 
includes  food,  petroleum  and  fertilizer  subsidies,  interest  subsidies  given  to  farmers, 
households  etc.  through  banks  and  subsidies  for  providing  insurance  to  households  at 
lower rates etc.
GDP at market prices, henceforth, be referred as GDP, can be computed by adding net 
of product tax and product subsidies in GVA at basic prices.
•  Gross Value Added (GVA) at basic prices = Compensation of Employees + Operating 
Surplus + Mixed Income + Consumption of Fixed Capital (CFC) + Production taxes 
- Production subsidies
•  GVA at factor cost (earlier referred to as GDP at factor cost) = GVA at basic prices - 
(Production taxes - Production subsidies)
•  Gross Domestic Product (GDP) = GVA at basic prices + Product taxes - Product 
subsidies
In manufacturing, many argue that the output was falling but the new series showed 
that the manufacturing sector’s performance was not that bad. It was because although 
the output was stagnant or less but the value addition was better off. GDP is a measure of 10 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
value added, it’s not about output. It’s the case of output being stagnant but value-addition 
going up.
Earlier  the  sectoral  manufacturing  data  value  addition  was  sourced  from  the  RBI 
Industrial  Outlook  Survey  conducted  on  a  quarterly  basis;  but  now  the  Ministry  or 
Corporate  Affairs  making  it  obligatory  on  the  part  of  the  companies  registered  under 
the Companies Act for online reporting, the MCA 21 database has been used for the 
manufacturing sector value added. The MCA database as on date covers 5 lakh companies 
and is fairly representative of the universe. The RBI surveys are small in size and not 
completely reliable for the sectoral analysis. Further, the manufacturing value added was 
calculated from ASI Annual data and extrapolated using IIP for the intervening period. The 
limitation with this data was that the ASI and IIP are establishment-based data while the 
MCA database goes beyond establishment based value addition and also incorporates data 
on brand pricing, marketing etc i.e. it includes allied activities which were earlier outside 
the purview of manufacturing value added. Further, the corporate segment manufacturing 
coverage accounts for almost 66-70 percent of the manufacturing sector. Then the new 
series data collected from local bodies is also used and the coverage is 60 percent.
The valuables’ segment, which basically comprises of gold and jewellery, an important 
component  of  capital  formation,  was  treated  as  consumption.  In  new  series,  valuables 
are combined into household savings and, therefore, consumption has come down and 
savings have gone up accordingly. The new GDP numbers will be liable to changes in 
future based on change in base year of IIP WPI and CPI series. These are important 
indices which play a pivotal role when computing GDP at constant and current prices. 
Based on revisions of base year of these indices, GDP growth rates may change.
The reasons for the rise in growth for manufacturing sector at new base are structural 
as well as change in compilation methodology. These are highlighted below:
1.  The shift from establishment approach to enterprise approach: The establishment 
approach used in Annual Survey of Industries did not capture the activities of a unit 
other  than  manufacturing.  Whereas,  an  enterprise  along  with  its  manufacturing 
activities  is  also  engaged  in  activities  other  than  manufacturing  such  as  ancillary 
activities. Now, in the new approach, the activities of a manufacturing company other 
than manufacturing are accounted in manufacturing sector. The enterprise approach 
is facilitated by MCA 21 data with Ministry of Corporate Affairs. These changes 
possibly have increased the coverage of registered sector of manufacturing.
2.  Incorporation of findings of NSSO surveys: The details of new NSS Surveys viz. 
Unincorporated  Enterprises  Surveys  (2010-11)  and  Employment  &  Unemployed 
Survey,  2011-12, are now available therefore, incorporated in the new series. The 
updates  are  an  improvement  in  the  representation  of  activities  in  the  unorganized 
manufacturing sector.
3.  The change in labour input method: The new series has switched over to “Effective 
Labour Input Method” for Unincorporated Manufacturing & Services Enterprises.11
OUTPUT OF AN ECONOMY
Earlier method was assigning equal weights to all types of workers, while the new 
method assigns different weights for workers as per their productivity.
4.  The  inclusion  of  production  tax  less  subsidies:  The  net  of  production  tax  and 
production  subsidies is positive in manufacturing, while it is inter-alia negative in 
agriculture and allied’ and ‘Electricity, gas etc’. Therefore, the positive net production 
tax would increase the size of GVA in the sector in absolute and relative to other 
sectors. Moreover, any change, including a change in policy, if alters the lump sum 
production tax and subsidies then this may also likely to reflect in the growth rates in 
the sector.
So we can say, the vast difference in the figures of the new series is not just because 
of an updation of the database or change in methodology but more so because of the 
change in data source. The new GDP numbers will be liable to changes in the future 
based on change in base year of IIP WPI and CPI series. These are important indices 
which play a pivotal role when computing GDP at constant and current prices. Based 
on revisions of base year of these indices, GDP growth rates may change.
1.5 GROSS HAPPINESS INDEX (GHI)
Economic  Development  has  always  been  considered  and  measured  on  materialistic 
enhancements and economic parameters. The term ‘Gross National Happiness’ was first 
coined by the 4th King of Bhutan, King Jigme Singye Wangchuck, in 1972. The concept 
implies that sustainable development should take a holistic approach towards notions of 
progress and give equal importance to non-economic aspects of wellbeing.
The GNH Index includes areas of socio-economic concern such as living standards, 
health, education and less traditional aspects of culture and psychological wellbeing. It is 
a comprehensive reflection of the general wellbeing of the population.
       
       
       
       
                   
CHAPTER2
TOWARDS INCLUSIVE GROWTH
(Growth and Development)
GROWTH RATE OF INDIAN ECONOMY
Now, let us go back to the statement made in the beginning of growth rates slowing down. 
The phrase basically means that the output of an economy is increasing but at a decreasing 
rate over the previous quarter/half-year/year, whichever is the reference period. If during 
the same reference period, output has declined, then it is referred to as contraction’ of 
output. Continuous periods of contraction over two quarters are known as ‘recession’ and 
still longer periods of continuous recession are known as ‘depression’.
Until  now,  the  world  economy  has  witnessed  The  Great  Depression  during  1929- 
1933. (We shall discuss more about this aspect in the Chapter on Global Outlook.)
As we have discussed earlier, growth plays an important role in an economy. As we 
know by now that ‘increased growth’ means ‘increased output’ and ‘increased income’ 
of an economy with increased income for factors of production which sets off a circular 
motion of further increase in income.
Increased Income —> Increased purchasing power —> Increased demand for goods and 
services —> Increased production —> Increased output —> Increased income
Increased  income  Increased  savings —>  Increased  investmen t — > Increased   
outp ut—>Increased income
Thus, increasing growth of an economy signifies well-being of that economy. Jobs get 
created, income levels increase and overall wealth of an economy increases. For this very 
reason, every economy would like to increase its overall growth. India was believed till the 
reforms were initiated, caught in a ‘low-growth cycle’ with low levels of incomes, thereby 
resulting in low savings and thus low investments, ultimately again leading to low income 
and again to low savings, which is known as the low-growth cycle.
It was also said during those days that India is unable to break through the ‘Hindu rate 
of growth’ with its inability to grow beyond 3.5 per cent (the term was coined by the noted 
Indian  economist,  late  Prof.  Raj  Krishna),  with  low  income  and  increasing  population 
leading  to  increased  poverty  and  unemployment  in  the  country,  regional/intra-regional 
imbalances and also widening of income inequalities.
Inability of an economy to increase growth rates of economies is not only due to low 
savings and investment but also due to lack of resources, technology and infrastructure 
constraints. These factors were a handicap earlier for India but things have changed in the 
21st century.14 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The 21st century has been good for India, as growth rates had started moving upwards 
and on were on the verge of achieving a double-digit growth, probably for the first time, 
except may be for a year briefly in the 1980s. Though growth rates have increased but it 
has not made any perceptible impact on the poverty, unemployment, inter-/intra-regional 
and  income  imbalances. Despite the high growth rates achieved, we have not got the 
desired results. There has been a distinct deceleration in growth since 2010 sliding down 
to the lowest in last decade of 4.4 per cent. But the larger question remains of high growth 
achieved had not yielded tangible benefits to the Indian economy.
This  would  lead  us  to  another  concept  of  ‘development’.  How  are  growth  and 
development different from each other?
DEVELOPMENT—INCLUSIVE GROWTH
The concept of development is qualitative, whereas that of growth is quantitative. While 
growth  is  an  arithmetic  number  signifying  an  increase  in  the  output  of  an  economy, 
development  includes  distribution  of  output  or  the  ability  of  the  increased  output  and 
income to reach the bottom-most stratum of society. Development also implies equitable 
distribution in the economy.
Earlier  it  was  widely  believed  that  initially  increased  growth  is  required  and  then 
development would happen, through what is referred as the ‘trickle-down theory’. This 
means  that  the  increased  growth  would percolate  down to  the bottom-most  stratum of 
society and provide equitable distribution. This is the significance of the word ‘growth and 
development’.
In the earlier years, the problem was our inability to push up rates of growth and the 
emphasis  was  on  increasing  growth  for  the  trickle-down  theory  to  work  which  would 
have allowed for development and equitable distribution. But the story for India is quite 
different  since  the  economic  reforms  initiated  in  1991  and  since  2005.  India  has  not 
only broken through the low-growth cycle but also become one of the fastest-growing 
economies after China.
The  high  growth  rate  achieved  since  2005  questions  the  trickle-down  theory  in 
India, as it has not benefited the Indian masses in terms of lowering absolute poverty 
levels  significantly,  creating  employment  opportunities,  reducing  inter-/intra-regional 
imbalances (rather it has only accentuated). There are reasons to understand why ‘trickle- 
down  theory’  has  not  worked  for  India.  Firstly,  the  Indian  economy  has  a  structural 
problem of excessive economic dependence on the agricultural sector. Over 65 per cent of 
the population is either directly/indirectly dependent on this sector.
The contribution of the agricultural sector to the overall gross domestic product (GDP) 
is only 18 per cent. The largest contribution of over 55 per cent comes from the services 
sector and the remaining 27 per cent is contributed by the secondary sector of which only 
14 per cent is by the manufacturing sector. The sector contributing the least to GDP has 
the maximum dependence (agriculture) and the sector contributing the most, has the least 
dependence (services).
Secondly, In India’s growth process, there has been a missing link of the relative earlier 
maturity of the services sector before achieving manufacturing sector maturity. Ideally, TOWARDS INCLUSIVE GROWTH 15
it  should  be  first  manufacturing  sector  before  the  services  sector  or  at  best  together. 
This  is  an  important  feature  as  there  is  a  linkage  between  manufacturing  sector  and 
agricultural sector either through raw materials or as a market for the industrial produce, 
and also for employment opportunities. This provides for greater sustainable growth of 
economies.
Thus, the benefit of increased growth in recent years has largely been confined to 
die services sector and little to the manufacturing sector and has not percolated to the 
agricultural sector where the majority of our population resides.
The peaking or maturity of the service sector in India could be due to the surge in 
BPOs and KPOs and also due to the need for value-added services by the bigger economies 
establishing bases in India given the low cost of hiring, easier to impart skills and a large 
young workforce. Still, a larger question of why this excessive dependence on agricultural 
sector, remains still to be resolved. It is said that India’s population mostly resides in 
villages. Lack of employment opportunities in the manufacturing sector, lack of formal 
education/skills,  lesser  growth  of  agro-based  industries,  traditional  thinking  and  abject 
poverty could be some of the many reasons.
But it also has to do with the governmental efforts by providing basic, effective and 
efficient infrastructure around villages including the road/rail links. The aim should be to 
have pan-India rail-road connectivity. This would provide for easy accessibility and faster 
mode of travel the making labour mobile.
History has been testimony to the fact that roads are the gateways to development 
in countries like Germany, the United States and more recently China. India has only 
recently  woken  up  to  this  reality  and  due  emphasis  is  now  being  given  to  the  road 
building,  primarily  through  various  projects,  namely,  Golden  Quadrilateral  (connecting 
the  4  metropolitan  cities  Delhi-Kolkatta-Chennai-Mumbai),  the  North-South  corridor 
(Srinagar-Kanyakumari) and the East-West corridor (Silchar-Porbandar).
Besides, efforts are also on for building of roads for Tier II and III cities and also for 
villages under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) scheme.
Recently, the government has cleared Bharatmala Project, which is the second largest 
highways construction project in the country since NHDP, under which almost 50,000 
km or highway roads were targeted across the country. Bharatmala will look to improve 
connectivity particularly on economic corridors, border areas and far flung areas with an 
aim of quicker movement of cargo and boosting exports.
The project is expected to create nearly 100 million man days of jobs during the road 
construction and subsequently 22 million jobs as a result of the increased economic activity 
across the country. The construction will be billed via several routes including debt funds, 
budgetary allocation, private investment, toll operator transfer model etc.
The  government,  having  realized  that  benefits  of  increased  growth  has  not  been 
reaching the people and hence now discontinued using nomenclature of ‘development’ 
and has replaced it by the term ‘inclusive growth’.Recommendations for Inclusive 
Growth in India
1 I
Improving Business Improving  Improving Public Strengthening 
Environment Fiscal Situation Governance & Regulation Innovation
•  Adopt revised Company Bills Strengthen fiscal framework  •  Reduce administrative  •  Improve conditions & incentives 
•  Implement Foreign Bribery Law Improve targeting & delivery  regulations and burdens for business and innovation
••   AImdporpotv Ne aRtioolnea ol fC Coommppeteittiitoionn Policy mImepclheamniesnmt  roefv sisuebds iDdiieresc t Tax Code  •  Implement a transparent evidence  •  Ropeefonrnmes tso enhance international 
•  CInotmromduiscsei oCnr oosfs I Gndoivaernment Training  Push international taxation  bMaisteigda rteeg ruislaktsi oonf- cmoarkruinpgti osyns itne m  •  aIns car esahsaer ei ni ni nGvDesPtment & innovation 
Programme reforms to boost investor sentiments contract management •  Improve transparency of trade, 
Increase public transparency to 
export & investment regimes
reinforce public trust
I I ’r
Lower Poverty &  Improving Transport  Financial Sector Improving 
Inequality Infrastructure Reforms Health Care Quality
•  Adopt a comprehensive  •  Monitor highway Public Private  •  Liberalise allocation of bank credit •  Regulate supply chain for pharmaceuticals T
reform to lower poverty  Participation contracts •  Modernise financial sector legal infrastructure •  Additional funding to states for  H
E
& inequality •  Streamline land record management •  Streamline regulatory arrangements expanding coverage of health care to the poor  IN
•  Enhance the cost  •  Initiate reform of railway  •  Modernise regulation of rural &  •  Regulate private health insurance D
effectiveness properties of  accounting & finance cooperative banks IA
NREGA •  Improve database on household creditworthiness N
•  Include guidelines for safety in   E
•  Retarget subsidies projected infrastructure projects. C
O
to support poor households 
N
& increase equity O
M
YTOWARDS INCLUSIVE GROWTH 17
It  is  not  a  new  concept  but  only  how  development  is  now  being  viewed  by  the 
government.  The  earlier  belief  was  that  for  development  to  take  place,  growth  was  a 
necessary condition. The changed notion of inclusive growth is that any growth should 
benefit the people by and large which means that the benefits of growth should be more 
broad-based, should have an orientation towards ‘masses’ and not only classes’. Thus, 
inclusive  growth  has  both growth and  development  as  components,  not  to be seen as 
separate, but viewed as together, today and also in the future.
Inclusivity  would  imply  more  equitable  distribution  of  the  gains  achieved  through 
higher growth. But, equitable distribution is not about equal distribution in an economy, 
arithmetically. This is possible only in theory. Equitable distribution is all about ‘fair and 
just share’ for the masses, especially the poor. It is not about the rich getting richer, as long 
as the poor are also moving up the ladder in terms of income and welfare, even though less 
proportionately than the privileged sections of the economy.
As long as both the subsets in an economy are moving up in the same direction, have 
means of livelihood, are economically better off and their basic needs are met, the objective 
of  equitable  distribution  is  being  achieved.  Hence,  inequitable  distribution  would 
mean the rich getting richer and the poor remaining poor, or the worse, still becoming 
poorer.
As we have been discussing that inclusive growth is oriented towards masses, what 
should inclusive growth give? or when can we say that growth has become inclusive and 
begun to deliver?
Inclusive growth should lead to:
1)  Employment opportunities for the masses at the entry level, providing livelihood, 
means  of  income,  increasing  their  purchasing  power  and  improving  their  ‘well- 
beingness’. This should result in reducing absolute poverty levels.
2)  Reduction of inter-/intra-regional imbalances.
3)  Create opportunities for skill development/formation.
4)  Better dispersal of industries.
5)  Increased agro-based industries.
(6)  A gradual shift away from the excessive economic dependence on the agricultural 
sector through employment-driven and positive migration.
(7)  Increased  vocational  employment  (carpentry,  repairs  to  cars/scooters/TV/mobiles, 
gardening, etc.).
Inclusive growth would also require a changed perception of both the central government 
and also the state governments, working in tandem, by creating an ‘enabling environment’ 
for the above deliverables.
Such an environment would require the following:
(1)  Pan-India road/rail links which would link the entire country and provide accessibility 
and affordable faster mode of transport for people and goods.
(2)  Providing accessibility and affordability to public services (primary health care and 
education),  public  utilities  (electricity,  drinking  water  and  sanitation)  and  public 
goods (social assets like community centres, etc.).
(3 Re-energizing the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) for skill development.18 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(4)  Policy framework conducive for investment by private sector (something like Tata 
Motors for their NANO car project in Gujarat).
(5)  Focus on directly creating employment opportunities. The government has already 
launched  Mahatma  Gandhi  National  Rural  Employment  Guarantee  Scheme, which 
provides employment for 100 days to one member from every poor family/household 
in every district of the country.
The creation of the enabling environment by the government is a key prerequisite, which 
would largely determine India’s ability to achieve inclusive growth in future. Growth and 
development or inclusive growth has always been an avowed objective of the government 
since independence. The difference today is not in the objective but the manner in which 
it is being sought to be achieved.
Earlier, the government had taken up, both the responsibilities of increasing growth 
and equitable distribution, and spread scarce resources across both resulting in the dilution 
of efforts and achieving neither growth nor equitable distribution.
The reforms of 1991 mark a change in the strategy of letting the private sector play a 
major responsibility in the investment and growth while on the other hand the government 
would concentrate on the welfare measures and create the enabling environment for desired 
inclusive growth of the economy in future. This is also based on the fact that more and 
better growth by the private sector would mean larger tax revenue base for the government 
which would enable the government in expanding the social sector interventions as a way 
of redistribution to the people.
Inclusive growth is not a new concept and is said to be a combination of both, what 
was earlier known as growth, development and equitable distribution, all rolled into a new 
terminology known as inclusive growth, specific and unique to India.
In future, the challenge would lie not in achieving a higher growth but to provide 
greater inclusivity, more broad-based, which benefits the masses. Inclusive growth was a
challenge as identified by the eleventh five-year plan only to become a larger challenge in
the twelfth five-year plan.
GROWTH WITH EQUITY
Both  growth  and  equity  are  the  two  important  objectives  of  any  type  of  economic 
planning. While growth refers to the increase in the overall national income, equity refers 
to an equitable distribution of this income so that the benefits of higher economic growth 
can be passed on to all sections of population to bring about social justice. Growth is 
assessed by the market value of goods and services produced in the economy (GDP) and it 
does not guarantee an equitable distribution of the income from this production. Hence, 
Growth with equity is a rational objective of economic growth as it ensures the benefits of 
high growth are shared by all people equally.


CHAPTER3
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
AND CLIMATE CHANGE
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Ar present, a few new terminologies are also being used for economies such as ‘sustainable 
development’ and ‘green GDP’. ‘Sustainable development’ is a global terminology which 
is  being  used  to  address  the  global  issues  of  global  warming,  environmental  aspects 
increased global pollution and ecological imbalances, which are critical for survival of 
planet earth and is thus a broader concept not relating to any one country but for the 
world as a whole.
It is neither the problem of one country nor can it be solved by one country. It is more 
macro in nature, which requires to be addressed by countries collectively through a dialogue 
and a consensus building at a global platform. This is about the present generation’s ability 
to meet ‘its’ own needs but without compromising on the ability of the future generation 
to meet ‘its’ needs. It is about a better environment for the future generation rather thar. 
what the present generation has inherited, to say the least not a worse than that inherited
Even though there has been a consciousness on the issue of sustainable development, 
the real thrust was provided with the Earth Summit during 1992 and then through various 
international conventions.
All the conventions mentioned so far have flagged the underlying issues especially that 
of reduction in greenhouse gases emission, which is critical for sustainable development. 
It also addresses areas of cleaner energy, reduction in biodiversity losses, tree plantation, 
solar/wind energy and other such global issues in sustainable development.
It is not about flagging of issues, which is important in as much as the need for collective 
consensus. But the reduction level so arrived through consensus, for different countries, 
should be adhered within the prescribed time lines. This is the problem area of a sharp 
divide between the rich countries and the countries such as India and China of achieving 
a broad-based, self-imposed reduction levels where each and every conventions have beer, 
failed. All the rich countries have failed to meet the deadlines repeatedly on all the major 
issues but most importantly on GHS emission reduction levels.
India, on the other hand, has been more forthright in its approach of already having 
low levels of such emissions and the projected level of emissions even by 2031 lower than 
the global average of 2005. Its progress in cleaner energy, solar and wind energy and the 
tree plantation is commendable.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 21
However, there are larger issues for India. The worrying fact of the increased growth, 
expanding size of output still has millions of poor people living below US $1 per day and 
India being home to the largest number of poor people in the world is very disturbing. 
Poverty and sustainable development cannot be divorced from each other. The increasing 
number of slums, widespread absence of hygienic sanitation, pitiable living conditions, 
continued  use  of  plastics  and  polluted  rivers  are  all  an  integral  part  of  sustainable 
development so far as India is concerned.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE
The  adoption  of  a  new  climate  change  agreement  at  the  21st  Conference  of  Parties 
(COP  21)  by  195  nations  in  Paris  in  December  2015  represents  another  milestone  in 
the  climate  change  front.  The  Paris  Agreement  sets  a  roadmap  for  all  nations  in  the 
world  to  take  action  against  climate  change  in  the  post-2020  period.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDG)  that  were  in  place  from  2000  to  2015  were  replaced  by 
the  Sustainable  Development  Goals  (SDG)  with  the  aim  of  guiding  the  international 
community and national governments on a pathway towards sustainable development for 
the next fifteen years. A new set of 17 SDGs and 169 targets were adopted by the world 
governments in 2015.
The  22nd  Conference  of  the  Parties  (COP-22)  to  the  UN  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change has concluded its meeting in Marrakech, Morocco, with a range of 
decisions around implementing the Paris Agreement. Following the new global agreement 
last December, the threshold of signatories for it to enter into force was passed less than 12 
months after being agreed and far earlier than expected. This has added pressure to quickly 
develop the necessary rules and procedures to support the Agreement.
Morocco saw meetings under the Convention, as well as the Kyoto Protocol, and for 
the first time, the Paris Agreement. The headline outcomes and announcements were:
•  Countries gave themselves two years to 2018 to agree rules and procedures for the Paris 
Agreement.
•  Technical  work  produced  guidance  and  questions  for  work-plans,  focusing  on: 
Nationally  Determined  Contributions  (NDCs);  a  transparency  framework;  global 
stocktake;  technology  development  and  transfer;  adaptation,  and  market  and  non­
market approaches.
•  Countries agreed a five-year workplan on Loss and Damage.
•  Developed  countries  launched  a  roadmap  to  2020  on  reaching  the  agreed  goal  of 
$100bn per annum in climate finance for developing countries.
• Astatement o fth e n eed for a ction and countries'will toact was agreed  -the  Marrakech
   Ac tionProcl am atio nfor  Our  Clima te an dSustaina ble D ev elop men t.        
• TheCli mate Vulnerab le Foru m,whic h is an internati onal partnership ofcountries highly
                 
vulnerabletoawarmingplanet,committedtoupdatetheirNDCsbefore2020,preparelong-
               
          
term low-emissions development strategies ,and generate 100%oftheir energy from
                 
       
renewablesourcesassoonaspossible.
         
   
 22 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Countries are now already looking to 2020 which is then extm  ilestone i n thep rocess  
There will bea  f acilitative d ialogue th aty ear,w ith inputs in cluding an Intergovernmental   
Panel on ClimateC hangespe cialrepo rton th epractic alitiesofa1.5C  tem  p erature objective,  
                         
aswellasassessments ofParties collective progress pledges and views from Parties and 
                   
stakeholders .That will lead to pressure for Parties to raise their level of Nationally 
                       
Determined  Contributions .The next two years areforParties to agree thedetails ofthe
                     
dialogueand itsinputsand therules,such ason accounting thatwillallowashared viewand 
 
comparability between countriesactions.
                 
On the domestic front, India continued to take ambitious targets in its action against 
                     
climate change. As a part of its contribution to the global climate change mitigation efforts, 
       
India announced  its Intended  Nationally  Determined  Contribution  (INDC which set 
                     
ambit iou s targets for d omest ic  efforts again st climate  change. Ou r c ountry  has itself  set an 
ambitiou s targe t of reducing  its e missions  intensity of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 
by 33-35  per  cent by 2030, c ompared  to 2 005 levels.          
India ha salso taken theinit iativeofsetting  up an Internat ional SolarAlliance(I SA),an   
                   
allianceof121 solar-resourcerich countries,lying fully orpartially between theTropicof
                       
Cancerand TropicofCapricorn.Thisalliancewasjointly launched by thePrimeMinisterof
                       
Indiaand PresidentofFranceon 30 November2015 atParis,on thesidelinesor the21st
th
                 
Conference ofParties to theUNFCCC .The Paris declaration  on theISA states that the
                     
countries sharethecollective ambition to undertake innovative and concerted efforts for
                 
reducing thecostoffinanceand technology'forimmediatedeploymentotcompetitivesolar
       
generation and to pavetheway forfuturesolargeneration,storageand good technologiesfor
         
countries’individualneeds.
           
India has announced  its Intended  Nationally  Determined  Contribution  (INDC)
               
ir.respectofclimatechangeinclusiveoffollowing aspects:
     
• To put forth and further propagate a healthy and sustainable way of living, based on 
             
traditionsand valuesofconservation and moderation.
         
• To adopt a climate-friendly and cleaner path than the one hitherto followed by others
                 
atacorresponding levelofeconomicdevelopment.
             
•   To achieve about 40 percentcumulative electric power installed capacity fromnon­
             
fossilfuelbased energy resources by 2030 with thehelp oftransferoftechnology and 
                 
lowcostinternationalfinanceincluding fromtheGreen ClimateFund (GCF).
         
• To create an additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion tonnes of CO, equivalent (CO.
             
eq.)through additionalforestand treecoverby 2030.
             
•   To better adapt to climate change by enhancing  investments in development
           
programmes in sectors vulnerable to climate change,particularly agriculture,water
                 
resources,theHimalayan region,coastalregions,health and disastermanagement.
           
•   To mo bilize do mestic ,new and additional funds from developed  countries for
implementing thesemitigation and adaptation actionsin viewoftheresourcesrequired 
and theresourcegap.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 23
•    To build capacities, created omestic fram ework and an international arc hitecture  for
the quic k diffusion ofcutting -edge climate  technolo gy in India a nd j oint  c ollabo rative
R&Dforsuch  futur e te chnologies    
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
Goal 1: No poverty: - Eradication of poverty in all its forms everywhere. 
Goal 2: Zero hunger: - End hunger by achieving food security and improved nutrition. 
Goal 3: Good health and well/being for people: - Ensure healthy lives for all. 
Goal 4: Quality education: - Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education for all. 
Goal 5: Gender equality: - Achieve gender equality and women empowerment.
Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation: - Ensure sustainable water management and sanitation 
for all.
Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy: - Ensure access to sustainable and modem energy 
for all.
Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth: - Promote sustainable economic growth and 
decent work for all.
Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure: - Build resilient infrastructure, sustainable 
industrialization and foster innovation.
Goal 10: Reducing inequalities: Reduce income inequality from all segments.
Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities: - Make cities and human settlements more 
safe and sustainable.
Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production: - Ensure sustainable consumption and 
production patterns.
Goal 13: Climate action: - Take urgent action to combat climate change and developments 
in renewable energy.
Goal 14: Life below water: - Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine 
resources.
Goal 15: Life on land: - Protect terrestrial ecosystems, manage forests, combat 
desertification, reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss.
Goal 16: Peace justice and strong institutions: - Promote peaceful societies, provide access 
to justice and build effective institutions.
Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals: - Strengthen the global partnership for sustainable 
development.
3.4 GREEN GDP
Green GDP refers to a national accounting system of the utilization of the non-renewable 
natural resources of any country and is now being envisioned as a part of sustainable 
development. The objective is to utilize the resources optimally, efficiently and effectively 
in furthering the growth of economies and at the same time a realization of their scarcity 
value. It is also believed that such an accounting will also pave the way for greater R&D 24 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
for developing viable alternatives to the fast depleting non-renewable natural resources of 
the country.
Clearly, the biggest issue is that of absolute poverty which has to be addressed in prior, 
before one can talk about broader aspects of sustainable development. This not to say that 
India should not address the issue of sustainable development, but addressing the needs of 
the poor is unquestionably the priority, of giving them the means of living and a hygienic, 
decent living standards.
Thus,  inclusive  growth,  sustainable  development  and  green  GDP  are  all  different 
terminologies, totally distinct from each other in their meaning but cannot be said to be 
independent but inter-related in terms of their implications.
CLIMATE FINANCING.
Climate finance means local, national or international financing through public, private 
and alternative sources of financing. It is critical to addressing climate change as large-scale 
investments are required to reduce climate change induced adversities.
Climate finance is equally important for adaptation strategies as there are requirements 
for significant financial resources to allow countries to adapt to the adverse effects and 
reduce the impacts ofc limatec hange.
                   
       
     
           
 
 
 
     
 
                   
   
   
 
   
   
                 
 
 
     
     
       
CHAPTER4
POVERTY AND
SOCIAL SECTOR
4.1 WHAT IS MEANT BY POVERTY IN INDIA?
Poverty is defined ast he m inimum b asicco nsumption level,ess entialfor surv ival.Itha sb een  
defined by thePlanni ng Commission ofIndiain  terms ofcalorie int ake.Abs olutepo verty isa 
condition, w herethecal orieint ake islessth an 240 0  kcalo riesperperson perda y in  ruralareas 
and 2100 kc alorie sperperson perday  in u rban areas .
The World Bank has coined its own universal definition of poverty levels as per person 
consumption of less than US $1 per day.
Relative  poverty,  is across  difference  in income levels of the rich and the relative 
poor. Even by this crude definition of Planning Commission of absolute poverty, it is 
estimated that over 230 million people are living below poverty line (BPL). According to 
the definition of World Bank, the numbers would increase significantly. India is said to 
have the largest number of people living BPL. The number of people BPL is even more 
higher than the entire population of the US. Poverty is largely concentrated in states such 
as UP, Bihar, Orissa, MP, West Bengal and they account for over 50 per cent of the total 
poverty in India.
Despite  over  six  decades  of  independence,  why  poverty  continues  to  exist?  It  can 
be  attributed to  the large  economic  dependence  on the  agricultural sector, subsistence, 
traditional  and  stagnating,  which  are  not  able  to  provide  enough  for  the  dependent 
population  in  terms  of  employment  opportunities,  high  levels  of  adult  illiteracy,  large 
number of landless, small and marginal farmers with no income support. There is absence 
of employment opportunities in the manufacturing sector.
It is not about how poverty is measured crude or refined? It is the biggest curse of post­
independence India of not being able to address the large-scale poverty in the country despite 
the well-intended schemes as can be seen in the following sections.
SOCIAL SECTOR
Social sector and poverty are interrelated as it largely comprises of those BPL and also 
that segment of the population which is outside the mainstream of development, which 
consists of the under-privileged, always at the receiving end, poor, backward classes and 
scheduled castes/tribes. It will also have landless, small and marginal farmers who are 26 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
engaged in casual work in the informal sector, living virtually on a daily basis. They are 
the most vulnerable section prone to exploitation, domination and do not have any voice 
or can also be known as ‘silent sufferers’ or a ‘mere spectator’ to their pitiable and pathetic 
condition oblivious of the fact that India is today one of the fastest growing economies.
One has already seen earlier, why this has happened. But what has the Government 
done about this? It has adopted a three-pronged strategy to address the social sectors which 
are as follows:
1.Broad Targeting ;
   
  2.NarrowTargeting;
 
3.SocialSecurity.
Broad Targeting
Under  broad  targeting  strategies  the  government  undertakes  ambitious  programs  with 
sub-programes for overall and comprehensive development of the country. Example of the 
broad targeting programmes are:
1. Indira Awas Yojana
2.SarvaSik shaAb hiyan
3.Mid-day Mealsch eme
4.Mahatma G andhi N ational R ural E mployment G uarantee Sc heme (M  GNREGA).  
5.TotalSa nitatio nCampaign.
6.JawaharlalNe hru NationalUr ban RenewalM ission (JNNURM
   
7.Integrated Child Developmentand Services(ICDS).
     
        8.NationalRuralHealth Mission (NRHM
   
9.Rajiv GandhiDrinking WaterScheme.
Of  all  the  above,  the  Mahatma  Gandhi  National  Rural  Employment  Guarantee 
Scheme (MGNREGA) is the most ambitious project of the government which is being 
implemented at the national level and of magnitude not seen anywhere in the world. It is 
the brain child of Jean Dreze, a Belgian economist. This scheme has now been enacted and 
guarantees unskilled wage employment of 100 days to one person in every rural household 
at a minimum wage. The 100 days employment under this scheme is visualized in the lean 
season of agricultural activities. This scheme is being implemented in all the districts of 
the country and is seen as a major step in creating the employment opportunities and also 
for poverty alleviation in the country. Women are given preference for employment under 
this  scheme,  which  has  no  middlemen  or  contractor  and  directly  being  implemented 
by the Gram Panchayats and the wages are paid in the bank account of those who are 
provided with the employment. The state governments are required to give unemployment 
allowance of one-third of the wages if not able to provide employment within 15 days of 
their registration. This scheme has been globally lauded as one of the most well intended 
schemes for the social sector anywhere in the world.
Critics of the scheme, however, feel that such a scheme could be damaging in the long 
run by pushing up the minimum wages and increase cost in the agricultural as well as POVERTY AND SOCIAL SECTOR 27
urban areas, adversely affect productivity and also prevent migration of labour, besides 
fuelling inflation.
Narrow Targeting
The government is attempting narrow targeting which are as follows:
1. Wage Employment Scheme—primarily through Mahatma Gandhi NREGA.
2. Self-Employment  Schemes—primarily  through  Swaran Jayanti Grameen  Sah-rozgar 
Yogana (SGSY) in the rural areas and through Swaran Jayanti Shahri Rozgar Yogana 
(SJSRY) in the urban areas.
 3. Food  security—primarily  through  TPDS,  AAY,  Annapurna  Scheme  for  senior 
citizens.
Social Security
The government is providing social security under its various programmes such as:
Ayushman Bharat
The government’s health strategy has broadly focused on three things: Ensuring free drugs 
and diagnostics, creating health and wellness centres (HWCs) to reinvigorate the failing 
rural health infrastructure evident from Rural Health Statistics 2018 and addressing the 
shifting of disease burden to non-communicable diseases and finally, covering 107 million 
poor families with an insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh for inpatient care under the Ayushman 
Bharat scheme.
National Nutrition Mission(NNM)
PoshanAbhiyaan (National Nutrition Mission) is a flagship programme of the Ministry 
of  Women  and  Child  Development  (MWCD),  Government  of  India,  which  ensures 
convergence with various programmes i.e., Anganwadi Services, Pradhan Mantri Matru 
Vandana  Yojana  (PMMVY),  Scheme  for  Adolescent  Girls  (SAG)  of  MWCD  Janani 
Suraksha Yojana (JSY), National Health Mission (NHM), Swachh-Bharat Mission, Public 
Distribution  System  (PDS),  Department  Food  &  Public  Distribution,  Mahatma  Gandhi 
National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and Ministry of Drinking 
Water & Sanitation.
The goals of NNM are to achieve improvement in nutritional status of Children from 
0-6 years, Adolescent Girls, Pregnant Women and Lactating Mothers in a time bound 
manner during the next three years beginning 2017-18.
The NationalN  utrition Mission (NNM)ha sbee n setup w ith athreey earbud geto f₹9046 .17  
c rore commencin g  from 2017-18.T heNNM i saco mprehe nsi ve  approach towa rds raising 
nutrition  levelin thecountry on  awa rfooting.    
Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana
The  National  Mission  of  Financial  Inclusion  named  as  the  Pradhan  Mantri  Jan  Dhan 
Yojana seeks to integrate the poorest of the poor with bank accounts.
• All households across the country - both rural and urban are to be covered under the 
scheme. Bank accounts will be opened for 15 crore poor persons.28 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
• Allbank  accountsopen ed underthesch eme  areto h ave an overdr aftfacility of ₹5,000 for 
A adhar-link ed accountsaftersatisfacto ry op eration in theaccountfor6 mo nths.    
•  Issuance of RuPay Debit Card with inbuilt Rs 1 lakh personal accident insurance 
cover provided by HDFC Ergo and a life cover of ₹ 30,000 provided by LIC
•  A minimum monthly remuneration of ₹   5,000 to business c orrespondents w ho will  
provide the last link between the account holders and the bank.
Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan (PM-SYM)
•  The Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan (PM-SYM) announced in the interim 
budget 2019 has been notified by the Ministry of Labour and Employment. Features 
of the PM-SYM PM-SYM is a voluntary and contributory pension scheme on a 50:50 
basis where prescribed age-specific contribution shall be made by the beneficiary and 
the matching contribution by the Central Government. The salient features of the 
PM-SYM are:
•  Each  subscriber  under  the  PM-SYM,  shall  receive  minimum  assured  pension of  
₹ 3000/- per month after attaining the age of 60 years.
•  If the subscriber dies during the period of receipt of the pension, the spouse of the 
beneficiary shall be entitled to receive 50% of the pension received by the beneficiary 
as a family pension.
•  If the beneficiary had died due to any cause (before age of 60 years), his/her spouse 
will be entitled to join and continue the scheme subsequently by payment of regular 
contribution or exit the scheme as per provisions of exit and withdrawal.
•  The subscriber must not be a taxpayer.
•  The scheme is expected to benefit as many as 42 crore workers are estimated to 
be engaged in theun organized sectorofth ec ountr y whosemonthly  incomeis ₹ 15,0 00/ 
p ermonth  orle ssand belo ng t o theentry agegrou p of18-40  yearswho  arenotbecov ered 
und er N ew Pension Schem e (N PS),Employees ’ State In surance Corp oratio n  (ESIC) 
schemeorEmployee s’Provi den tFund Orga nisation (E PFO).
RashtriyaYuvaSashaktikaranKaryakram Scheme
•  The RashtriyaYuvaSashaktikaranKaryakram Scheme is a Central Sector Scheme of 
the Ministry of Youth Affairs &C Sports and has been continuing since 12th Five Year 
Plan. The Scheme aims to develop the personality and leadership qualities of the 
youth and to engage them in nation building activities.
•  The  Department  of  Youth  Affairs  has  been  operating  a  number  of  Schemes  for 
development and empowerment of youth. Restructuring of the schemes were done in 
2014 in order to improve their effectiveness. In the process 8 ongoing schemes were 
merged to form the umbrella Scheme called RashtriyaYuvaSashaktikaranKaryakram 
(RYSK) with effect from 01.04.2016.
•  The Scheme is to be continued during 2017-18 to 2019-2020 with budget out lay of            
₹ 1160 crore.
•  The Scheme beneficiaries are youth in the age-group of 15-29 years, in line with 
the definition  of 'youth ’in  the National  Youth  Policy ,2014 .In  case  of programme 
components specifically meant fort hea dolescents,t hea geg roupis 10 -19ye ars.POVERTY AND SOCIAL SECTOR 29
• The following existing Schemes/ Programmes were subsumed in the Rashtriya Yuva
               
Sashaktikaran Karyakram(RYSK):
 
* Nehru YuvaKendraSangathan (NYKS).
   
* NationalYouth Corps(NYC).
   
* National Programme for Youth and Adolescent Development (NPYAD). 
* International Cooperation (IC).
* Youth Hostels (YH).
* Assistance to Scouting and Guiding Organisations
     
* NationalDisciplineScheme(NDS)
     
* NationalYoung LeadersProgramme(NYLP).
     
NationalRuralSwarajCampaign
                   
• Thecampaign isundertaken underthenameof“SabkaSath,SabkaGaon,SabkaVikas”.
                     
• The objective of the campaign is to promote social harmony, spread awareness about
                   
pro-poor initiatives of government, reach out to poor households to enroll them as also 
     
to obtain theirfeedback on variouswelfareprogrammes.
           
• The campaign is being held through a partnership of beneficiaries, 33 lakh elected 
                   
PRIs members, 5 crore women SHG members, MLAs and MPs to achieve goals. The
         
Central/Stateand LocalGovernmentsarealso partnersin progress.
                     
• It is in line with rural development schemes like “Antyodaya” — based on the principle
   
of“convergenceand saturation”.
                     
• The seven schemes are - Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, Saubhagya, Ujala scheme,
           
Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan 
       
MantriSurakshaBimaYojanaand Mission Indradhanush.
   
SHREYASScheme2019
               
• The objective of scheme is to  provide industry  apprenticeship  opportunities to 
           
the general graduates exiting  in  April 2019  through  the National Apprenticeship 
 
Promotion Scheme(NAPS)
             
• It aims to enhance the employability of Indian youth by providing on the job work 
   
exposure’and earning ofstipend.
                   
• The scheme is for students in degree courses, primarily non-technical, to introduce
             
employableskillsinto theirlearning,promoteapprenticeship asintegralto education.
         
YuvaSahakar-CooperativeEnterpriseSupportandInnovationScheme
                     
• To  cater to  the needs and  aspirations of the youth, the National Cooperative
             
Development Corporation (NCDC) has come up with a youth-friendly this scheme
       
forattracting themto cooperativebusinessventures.
             
• The newly launched scheme would encourage cooperatives to venture into new and 
 
innovativeareas.
               
• The scheme will be linked to ₹ 1000 crore ‘Cooperative Start-up and 
   
Innovation Fund (CSIF)’created by theNCDC.
       
PradhanMantriKisanSammanNidhi(PM-KISAN)
                       
• To allay some misgivings of the distress, one of the announcements in the Budget
           
speech wasthatvulnerablelandholding farmerfamilies,having cultivableland up to30 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
2 hectares, will be provided direct income support at the rate of₹   6,000 per  year  ,  in 
       
threeequalinstallmentsof₹2,000 each.
                 
• Around 12 croresmalland marginalfarmerfamiliesareexpected to benefitfromthis.
•  The programme would be made effective from 1st December 2018 and the first 
installment  for  the  period  upto  31st  March  2019  would  be paid  during  this  year 
itself.
•  It will entail an annual expenditure of₹ 75, 000 crore.
Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY)
•  The  maternity  benefits  under  PMMVY  are  available  to  all  Pregnant  Women  & 
Lactating Mothers (PW&LM) except those in regular employment with the Central 
Government or State Government or Public Sector Undertaking or those who are in 
receipt of similar benefits under any law.
•  The  scheme  is  being  implemented  on  a  60:40  cost-sharing  basis  with  the  State 
governments.
•  It is for first living child of the family as normally the first pregnancy of a woman 
exposes her to new kind of challenges and stress factors.
•  The Government of India has  approved Pan-India  implementation of  PMMVY  in 
all districts of the country  under which the eligible beneficiaries  ge t ₹ 5,000/- under 
PMMVY
•  The  remaining  cash  incentive  as  per  approved  norms  towards  Maternity  Benefit 
under Janani Suraksha Yojana (JSY) after institutional delivery so that on an average, 
a woman gets ₹6 000/-
Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana (PMWY)
•  The government has launched the PMWY to provide social security during old age 
and to protect elderly persons aged 60 and above against a future fall in their interest 
income due to uncertain market conditions
•  The  PMWY  is  being  implemented  through  Life  Insurance  Corporation  of  India 
(LIC)
•  The scheme provides an assured pension based on a guaranteed rate of return of 8 
percent per annum for ten years, with an option to opt for the pension on a monthly, 
quarterly, half-yearly or annual basis
•  The difference between the return generated by LIC and the assured return of 8 
percent annually will be borne by the government of as a yearly subsidy.
Integrated Scheme on School Education
•  The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Wednesday approved the proposal 
of  the  Department  of  School  Education  and  Literacy  to  formulate  an  Integrated 
Scheme on School Education
•  It will be implemented by subsuming the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA), Rashtriya 
Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) and Teacher Education (TE) from April 1, 
2018, to March 31, 2020
Jan ShikshanSansthan (JSS)
•  The scheme of JSS was initially launched in 1967 as Shramik Vidyapeeth, a polyvalent 
or multi-faceted adult education institution.POVERTY AND SOCIAL SECTOR 31
•  Formerly under the Ministry of Human Resources Development, JSS was transferred 
to the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship in 2018.
•  It was aimed at improving the vocational skills and quality of life of the industrial 
workers and their family members as well as those persons who had been migrating 
from rural to urban settings.
•  Now it has challenging mandate of providing vocational skills to non-literate, neo­
literates as well as school drop-outs by identifying skills that have a market in the 
region of their establishment.
Sakhi One Stop Centre
•  Ministry  of  WCD  has  formulated  a  Centrally  Sponsored  Scheme  for  setting  up 
One  Stop  Centre,  a  sub  -  scheme  of  Umbrella  Scheme  for  National  Mission  for 
Empowerment of women including Indira Gandhi MattritavSahyaog Yojana.
•  It is a scheme sponsored under the Nirbhaya fund set up for safety of women after 
the gang rape of a paramedical student in December 2012 in New Delhi.
•  It being established across the country to provide integrated support and assistance 
under one roof to women affected by violence, both in private and public spaces in 
phased manner.
•  The scheme envisages an OSC for medical, legal, psychological and police help for 
victims of gender-based abuse such as sexual assault or domestic violence.
Pradhan Man tri Ujjwala Yojana
PMUY is a welfare scheme being implemented by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural 
Gas to provide LPG connections to families below the poverty line, guided by the strong 
commitment  to bring about changes in the life of poor women and also protect their 
health
•  Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) is used to identify the beneficiaries (adult 
woman of a BPL family) and is given a deposit free LPG connection with a financial 
assistance of ₹1 600 perc onnection by thec entre
•  This scheme will help prevent pollution and facilitate the healthy atmosphere in the 
families of poor people.
Atal BimitVyakti Kalyan Yojna (ABVKY)
•  The  change  in  employment  pattern  and  the  current  scenario  in  India  which  has 
transformed from a long term to fixed short term engagement in the form of contract 
is considerable.
•  Taking this into account ESI has approved ABVKY for Insured Persons (IP) covered 
under the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948.
•  Uris scheme is a relief payable in cash directly to their Bank Account in case of 
unemployment and while they search for new engagement.
•  ESI hasa pproved thepr oposalfor reim bursementof ₹1 0/-  pe rpers on t o theemployers 
to encoura ge theseeding  ofA adhar (UID )in ESIC  datab ase ofthei rworkers and  their 
family m embers. 
•  It will curtail the multiple registrations of same Insured Persons and thus enable them 
to avail the benefits requiring longer contributory conditions.32 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Pradhan Mantri AnnadataAaySanrakshan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA)
•  The Scheme is aimed at ensuring remunerative prices to the farmers for their produce 
as announced in the Union Budget for 2018.
•  Government has already increased the MSP of kharif crops by following the principle 
of 1.5 times the cost of production.
•  It is expected that the increase in MSP will be translated to farmer’s income by way 
of robust procurement mechanism in coordination with the State Governments.
•  The new Umbrella Scheme includes the mechanism of ensuring remunerative prices 
to the farmers and is comprised of-
•  Price Support Scheme (PSS),
•  Price Deficiency Payment Scheme (PDPS)
•  Pilot of Private Procurement & Stockist Scheme (PPPS).
Atal Pension Yojana(APY) 2019
•  It is a social security scheme launched by the government in 2015 to provide a defined 
pension between ₹ 1,000 to 5,000.
•  Now the scheme will expand its focus to target individuals, instead of households.
•  According  to  government  data,  over  1  crore  people  have  benefited  from  the 
governments flagship scheme.
•  The scheme, which was earlier for four years, lapsed in August 2018.
•  But seeing the mass participation in this runaway-success scheme, the cabinet has 
decided to extend it and keep it open-ended.
Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY)
•  PM Jan Dhan Yojana is the biggest financial inclusion scheme in the entire World. 
Now the govt, wants to make scheme more open ended with more incentives keeping 
in view of its “runaway success”.
•  Jandhan-Aadhaar-iMobile  (JAM)  linking  will  continue  to  provide  the  essential 
backbone  to  cover  various  activities.  This  includes  Banking  /  Savings  &  Deposit 
Accounts, Remittance, Credit, Insurance, Pension in an affordable manner.
•  Central  Govt,  has  decided  to  make  Pradhan  Mantri  Jan  Dhan  Yojana  an  Open 
Ended Scheme. Under this PMJDY Scheme, govt, has now added more number of 
incentives in order to encourage poor people to open zero balance bank accounts.
•       Accidental Insurance  Now  ₹ 2 Lakh — All the people who opens new Jan Dhan Bank 
Accounts after 28 August 2018 will now get Free Accident Insurance Cover of double 
   
amountof ₹2 lakh.
•  Over-draft  Limit  Now ₹ 10,000 - Now t here w  ould ben o conditions  attached  for 
                           
overdraft ofupto ₹2,000.Now themaximum limit forover-draft issetatRs.10,000              
                 
(previously 5,000).INPMJDY,thisfacility isavailable after6 monthsofopening bank 
accounts.
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0
•  Unnat Bharat Abhiyan is a flagship programme of the Ministry of HRD, which aims 
to link the Higher Education Institutions with a set of at least 5 villages so that thesePOVERTY AND SOCIAL SECTOR 33
institutions  can  contribute  to  the  economic  and  social  betterment  of  these  village 
communities using their knowledge base.
•  It is a significant initiative where all Higher Learning Institutes have been involved 
for participation in development activities, particularly in rural areas.
•  It also aims to create a virtuous cycle between the society and an inclusive university 
system, with the latter providing knowledge base; practices for emerging livelihoods 
and to upgrade the capabilities of both the public and private sectors.
BetiBachao, BetiPadhao (BBBP)
•  It is a campaign of the Government of India that aims to generate awareness and 
improve the efficiency of welfare services intended for girls. The scheme was launched 
with an initial funding of  ₹ 100 crore.
•  It mainly targets the clusters in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Bihar 
and Delhi.
•  It aims to address the issue of declining Child Sex Ratio (CSR) through a mass 
campaign  across  the  country  targeted  at  changing  societal  mindsets  &  creating 
awareness about the criticality of the issue.
•  The Scheme will have focused intervention & multi-sectoral action in 100 districts 
with low Child Sex Ratio.
Why has the plethora of schemes not yielded the desired results? A few reasons for 
their failure are as follows:
•  The Government has well-designed schemes. The question is not about intention but 
that of implementation of these schemes. There was not a proper identification of the 
targeted beneficiaries.
•  There is also a lack of awareness of these schemes amongst the masses, given their 
illiteracy and ignorance.
•  'There is also an absence of any monitoring mechanism for the efficacy of such schemes 
or to know the end result. The focus is on increased outlays and new schemes but 
there is no mechanism of tracking down the outcome.
•  It  may  be  better  to  implement  these  programmes  through  NGOs  after  a  strict 
screening process and also with proper checks and balances in place.
•  There is a need to bring in an independent ‘social audit’ of these schemes not for 
fixing accountability but for plugging leakages, improving delivery so as to make the 
schemes effective and true to their intention for the overall benefit of the social sector.
•  Today,  there  is  an  availability  of  modern  technology  which  can  be  deployed 
for  capturing  information  and  creating  a  database  which  will  enable  a  tracking 
mechanism for the target group and their reach and will be useful in refining the 
schemes in future.
•  Finally, the focus of the government has been on schemes, so many that they overlap 
with diffused focus and accountability at different levels.
The aspect of changing the orientation from schemes to the people in the villages could 
be a better strategy and it also leads to convergence of all the schemes. This could be done 
following the cluster approach’ which is implementing all the schemes starting from the 
most backward villages, bunched together as a cluster, for the schemes to be implemented 34 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
and ensuring their sustainability by transferring the onus of further development to the 
villages and then moving to another cluster.
It would be the responsibility of the state government to monitor the functioning of 
the cluster of villages that are assisted through the schemes. This would provide for better 
delivery of schemes, proper monitoring and also for sustainability of the efforts and will 
lead to fundamental changes as the needs of the villages would get assessed first and not 
the other way around. It will also enable the government to acquire an understanding 
of the resources required and then the government could look at various alternatives of 
implementing them.
Right  since  Independence,  these  problems  have  persisted.  It  has  also  engaged  the 
attention of successive governments but it has always been through increased outlays and 
new schemes which have been launched for them, year after year, but without tangible 
benefits.  What  is  now  required  is  to  tackle  them  differently.  A  few  suggestions  have 
been provided earlier, not that they are bound to succeed, but will display the attitude 
of the government of willing to experiment to find long-lasting solutions to the vexed 
problems. The government has to keep in mind that it is not the resources which matter 
bur  in  their  efficient  spending,  technology-enabled  monitoring  mechanism  and  being 
on the learning curve each year, reorienting and successfully addressing the needs of the 
social sector.
Let us also admit that the task is daunting but it has to be accomplished one way or the 
other, a major challenge for the governments both the centre and state collectively.
4.3 MICRO FINANCE
Given that social sector do not have access to organize sources of finance say through banks and 
also given their extensive paper work, cumbersome procedures, documentation requirement, 
the micro credit institutions are today seen as offering a solution both for the social sector as 
well as addressing the issues of poverty. These institutions, as a concept have their genesis in 
Bangladesh, pioneered by Mohammed Yunus, for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize, as 
successful institutions for reaching out to the last unit of any economy not possible through 
banks and directly contributing to the uplift of the poor especially rural women.
In India, the SHG movement started in 1992 under NABARD and with involvement 
of banks. Under the SHG scheme credit is linked to savings by focusing on capacity 
building,  with  low  interest  rates  usually  8-10  per  cent  with  monthly  repayment  but 
responsibility  of  the  group  and  not  individuals.  SHGs  in  India  cover  90  million  poor 
households and have extended credit ofo ver₹  2 5,000 crore.
Micro  Finance  Institutions  (MFIs)  are  institutions  which  provide  credit  to  the  poor 
but at a high interest rate but lower than that charged by the money lenders. MFIs in 
India have engaged the attention of the government only since 2003 and in the last 7 
             
years,haveseen an exponentialexpansion to reach 30 million and creditofover₹ 30,000 crore.
               
Thesehavebeen seen aspartnering SHGsin micro financein Indiaand also amajorway 
             
through which thecountry could provide‘financialinclusion’,thatis,to provideaccessibility 
                 
to organized sourcesoffinanceto thepoorpeopleand reducetheirdependence on themoney 
               
lenders for their income generating  activities enabling  them to have source ofincome , 
               
employmentand also getoutofpoverty.POVERTY AND SOCIAL SECTOR 35
However,  in  recent  times,  MFIs  especially  in  Andhra  Pradesh,  have  given  a  new 
dimension and raised the following fundamental issues:
1) Their prime motive is to earn profits through high profit margins by charging high 
interest rates but slightly lower than that charged by the money lenders.
(2)  MFIs have reached out to those ignored by the banks and also the fact they are not 
complementing the efforts of the banks. There is sizeable concentration of MFIs in 
areas where there is banking penetration.
(3)  MFIs  are  finding  softer  options  of  lending  like  SHGs,  which  leads  to  multiple 
financing, debt burden on the borrowers.
(4)  MFI are aggressive and are more consumer-oriented loans, less productive-oriented, 
similar like a private bank selling consumer loans or the US banks’ lending to sub­
prime borrowers.
These developments have forced the government to rethink on this model of financial 
inclusion and adding in place regulations for the MFI.
However, at a broader level and to provide greater inclusivity the nationalized banks 
are  better  placed  than  the  MFIs  through  innovative  means  such  as  the  correspondent 
banking  route,  which  will  keep  costs  low  of  reaching out  without  the need  for  more 
branches. Micro finance through MFIs would thus require a redesign but their greater 
complementary and compatibility role with the banks would have to be explored to make 
them as effective institutions of micro finance in India.
Social  sector  is  one  of  the  key  sectors  of  the  economy  and  reaching  out  to  them 
and drawing them into mainstream of development is the biggest responsibility of the 
government, as only then the biggest transformation of the economy would happen by 
bringing all round prosperity.
PRADHAN MANTRI MUDRA YOJANA (PMMY)
Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) is a scheme launched by the Government in 2015 
for providing loans upto 10 lakh to the non-corporate, non-farm small/micro enterprises. 
These loans are classified as MUDRA loans under this Yojana. These loans are given by 
Commercial Banks, RRBs, Small Finance Banks, Cooperative Banks, MFIs and NBFCs. 
MUDRA has created three products namely 'Shishu, ‘Kishore and 'Taruri to signify the 
stages of growth and funding needs of the beneficiary.
4.5 SPREADING JAM ACROSS INDIAN ECONOMY
Large-scale,  technology-enabled,  real-time  Direct  Benefit  Transfers  can  improve  the 
economic lives of India’s poor, and the JAM Trinity (Jan Dhan, Aadhaar, Mobile) can 
help the government implement them. Over the past year, JAM has deepened its coverage 
at an astonishing rate creating around 4 million accounts per week and several mobile 
money operators were licensed. Cash transfers can directly improve the economic lives 
of India’s poor, and raise economic efficiency by reducing leakages and market distortions. 
Implementing Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT) at large-scale and in real-time remains one 
of the government s key objectives, and significant progress has been made in the past year.36 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The  JAM  Trinity:  Jan  Dhan,  Aadhaar,  Mobile  helped government  to implement 
direct benefit transfers effectively.
The requirements if government wanted to transfer₹  1 000 to every Indian tomorroware 
:  
       1.Governm entm us tbea bleto identify  thebeneficiaries;
2. Governme ntmu st beab leto transf ermoney to the sebeneficiarie s;
           
3. Beneficiariesmustbeableto easily accesstheirmoney.
                   
Failure in the first aspect leads to inclusion errors and leakage as benefits intended for
                   
the poor flow to rich and “ghost” households, resulting in a fiscal loss. Failure on other
                   
two aspects leads to exclusion errors as genuine beneficiaries are unable to avail benefits.
               
The government must be especially sensitive to exclusion errors, which typically hurt the
poorest.
   
Ingredients of JAM
           
TheessentialcomponentsforJAMarelisted below:
               
1. Government —»  Beneficiary: the challenge of identification: To  identify  the
               
beneficiaries, the government needs databases of eligible individuals. Beneficiary 
             
databases have existed for long before Aadhaar, but their accuracy and legitimacy 
       
have been  hampered  by  the administrative and  political discretion  involved  in 
               
granting identity proofs like BPL cards, driving licenses and voter IDs. Ghost and 
                 
duplicate names crept into beneficiary lists, leading to leakage. Aadhaar s virtue lies
           
in using technology to replace human discretion, while keeping the system simple
               
enough, fingerprints and iris scans for citizens to understand. 210 million Aadhaar
                 
cardswerecreated in 2015,atan astonishing rateofover4 million cardsperweek.
             
2. Government—>Bank:thechallengeofpayment:
               
After identifying  beneficiaries, the government must transfer money  to  them, for
                 
which  the government needs their account numbers. This constraint has been 
         
eased by the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, under which 120 million accounts
                     
were created in the last year alone at a blistering, record-setting pace of over 3 lakh 
                 
accounts per day. Despite Jan Dhan’s record-breaking feats, basic savings account
                 
penetration in most states is still relatively. Policy makers thus need to be cognizant
         
about exclusion errors due to DBT not reaching unbanked beneficiaries.Comparing 
                   
the reach of Jan Dhan with that of Aadhaar suggests that the unbanked are more
         
likely to obstructthespread ofJAMthan theunidentified.
                 
3. Bank —> Beneficiary: the last-mile challenge of getting money into people’s
hands:
                     
In rural India, however, there is a serious “last-mile” problem of getting money from
                   
the banks into household’s hands: only 27 per cent of villages have a bank within 5 
                 
km. To help address this problem, the RBI in 2015 licensed 23 new banks, viz, 2 
                 
universal banks, 11 payment banks and 10 small financebanks.Spreading JAMacross
               
India’seconomy showsthatmobilepenetration acrossIndiaisstrong.Moreover,POVERTY AND SOCIAL SECTOR 37
there are approximately 1.4 million agents or service posts to serve approximately 
1010 million mobile customers in India, a ratio of about 1:720.
India  should  take  advantage  of  its  deep  mobile  penetration  and  agent  networks 
by making greater use of mobile payments technology to improve the quality and 
convenience  of  service  delivery.  For  example,  they  can  inform  beneficiaries  that 
food supplies have arrived at the ration shop or fertiliser at the local retail outlet. 
While some important changes have occurred this year to improve last-mile financial 
connectivity, still the Bank-Beneficiary connection still appears the weakest link in 
the JAM chain.
UNIVERSAL BASIC INCOME
"Wiping every tear from every eye” based on the principles of universality, unconditionality, 
and agency is the hallmarks of a Universal Basic Income (UBI). A number of implementation 
challenges lie ahead, especially the risk that UBI would become an add-on to, rather than 
a replacement of, current anti-poverty and social programs, which would make it fiscally 
unaffordable. But given their multiplicity, costs, and questionable effectiveness, and the 
real opportunities afforded by the rapidly improving “JAM” infrastructure, UBI holds the 
prospects of improving upon the status quo.
Introduction
Despite  making  remarkable  progress  in  bringing  down  poverty  from  about  70  percent 
at  independence  to  about  22  percent  in  2011-12  (Tendulkar  Committee), it can safely 
be said that “wiping every tear from every eye” is about a lot more than being able to 
imbibe  a  few  calories.  And  the  Mahatma  understood  that  better,  deeper,  and  earlier 
than  all  the  Marxists,  market  messiahs,  materialists  and  behaviouralists.  He  intuited 
that  it  is  also  about  dignity,  invulnerability,  self-control and freedom, and  mental and 
psychological  unburdening.  From  that  perspective,  Nehrus  exhortation  that  “so  long 
as there are tears and suffering, so long our work will not be over” is very much true 
nearly 70 years after independence.
Today, an option to realise Gandhiji’s objective presents itself and has entered the policy 
consciousness in India and around the world: Universal Basic Income, UBI for short. UBI 
has three components: Universality, Unconditionality, and Agency (by providing support 
in the form of cash transfers to respect, not dictate, recipients’ choices).
The Conceptual/Philosophical Case for UBI
Universal  Basic  Income  is  a  radical  and  compelling  paradigm  shift  in  thinking  about 
both social justice and a productive economy. A universal basic income is, like many 
rights,  unconditional  and  universal:  it  requires  that  every  person  should  have  a  right 
to a basic income to cover their needs, just by virtue of being citizens. The time has 
come to think of UBI for a number of reasons:38 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Social Justice: UBI is, first and foremost, a test of a just and non-exploitative society. 
A Universal Basic Income promotes many of the basic values of a society which respects all 
individuals as free and equal. It promotes liberty because it is anti-paternalistic, opens up 
the possibility of flexibility in labour markets. It promotes equality by reducing poverty. It 
promotes efficiency by reducing waste in government transfers. And it could, under some 
circumstances,  even  promote  greater  productivity.  It  is  not  an  accident  that  Universal 
Basic Income has been embraced both by thinkers of the Left and of the Right.
Poverty  Reduction:  Conditional  on  the  presence  of  a  well-functioning  financial 
system, a Universal Basic Income may simply be the fastest way of reducing poverty. 
UBI is also, paradoxically, more feasible in a country like India, where it can be pegged at 
relatively low levels of income but still yield immense welfare gains.
Employment:  UBI  is  an  acknowledgement  that  society’s  obligation  to  guarantee 
a  minimum  living  standard  is  even  more  urgent  in  an  era  of  uncertain  employment 
generation. Moreover, UBI could also open up new possibilities for labour markets. It 
creates flexibility by allowing for individuals to have partial or calibrated engagements with 
the labour market without fear of losing benefits. They allow for more non-exploitative 
bargaining since individuals will no longer be forced to accept any working conditions, 
just so that they can subsist.
Administrative Efficiency: In India in particular, the case for UBI has been enhanced 
because of the weakness of existing welfare schemes which are riddled with misallocation, 
leakages and exclusion of the poor. When the trinity of Jan-Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile 
(popularly referred to as JAM) is fully adopted the time would be ripe for a mode of 
delivery that is administratively more efficient. The administrative argument however has 
to be made with some care. While Aadhar is designed to solve the identification problem, it 
cannot, on its own, solve the targeting problem. It is important to recognise that universal 
basic income will not diminish the need to build state capacity: the state will still have to 
enhance its capacities to provide a whole range of public goods. UBI is not a substitute for 
state capacity: it is a way of ensuring that state welfare transfers are more efficient so that 
the state can concentrate on other public goods.
The Conceptual Case against UBI
From an economic point of view there are three principal and related objections to a 
universal  basic  income. The  first  is  whether UBI reduces the incentive to work. This 
argument is vastly exaggerated. For one thing, the levels at which universal basic income 
are likely to be pegged are going to be minimal guarantees at best; they are unlikely to 
crowd incentives to work. One school of thought would argue that it truly is a diminution 
of human dignity to suppose that the only motivation for which people work is necessity; 
take away the yoke of necessity and they will be lazy. The same kinds of arguments used to 
be made against high wages: that if wages rise beyond a certain level workers will choose 
leisure over work. There is very little evidence to sustain that proposition.
The second concern is this: Should income be detached from employment? The honest 
economic answer to this concern is that society already does this, but largely for the POVERTY AND SOCIAL SECTOR 39
rich and privileged. Any society where any form of inheritance or accepting non-work 
related income is allowed, already detaches income from employment. So, receiving a 
small unearned income as it were, from the state should be economically and morally less 
problematic than the panoply of “unearned” income our societies allow.
The third is a concern out of reciprocity. If society is indeed a “scheme of social 
cooperation”,  should  income  be  unconditional,  with  no  regard  to  peoples  contribution 
to society? The short answer is that individuals as a matter of fact will in most cases 
contribute to society, as stated above. In fact, UBI can also be a way of acknowledging 
non-wage work related contributions to society.
In the current social structure, for example, homemaking contributions of women are 
largely unacknowledged economically, since they do not take the form of wage or contract 
employment. It is important that UBI is not framed as a transfer payment from the rich to 
the poor. Its basis is rather different. UBI gives concrete expression to the idea that we have 
a right to a minimum income, merely by virtue of being citizens. It is the acknowledgment 
of the economy as a common project. This right requires that the basic economic structure 
be configured in a way thate very individualg etsb asici ncome.
Arguments in Favour and Against UBI
Favor Against
Poverty and vulnerability reduction: Conspicuous spending: Households, especially 
Poverty and vulnerability will be  male members, may spend this additional income 
reduced in one fell swoop. on wasteful activities.
Choice: A UBI treats beneficiaries as  Moral hazard (reduction in labour supply): A 
agents and entrusts citizens with the  minimum guaranteed income might make people 
responsibility of using welfare spend­ lazy and opt out of the labour market.
ing as they see best; this may not be 
the case with in-kind transfers.
Better targeting of poor: As all in­ Gender disparity induced by cash: Gender 
dividuals are targeted, exclusion error  norms may regulate the sharing of UBI within 
(poor being left out) is zero though  a household - men are likely to exercise control 
inclusion error (rich gaining access to  over spending of the UBI. '’This may not always be 
the scheme) is 60 percent. the case w'ith other in-kind transfers.
Insurance against shocks: This  Implementation: Given the  current status of 
income floor will provide a safety               
financialaccessamong the poor,aUBImay 
net against health, income and other     
puttoo much stresson thebanking system.
shocks.
Improvement in financial inclusion:  Fiscal cost given political economy of exit: 
Payment - transfers will encourage  Once introduced, it may become difficult for the 
greater usage of bank accounts, leading  government to wind up a UBI in case of failure.
to higher profits for banking corre­
spondents (BC) and an endogenous 
improvement in financial inclusion. 
Credit - increased income will release 
the constraints on access to credit for 
chose with low income levels.40 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Arguments in Favour and Against UBI
Favor Against
Psychological benefits: A guaranteed  Political economy of universality - ideas for 
income will reduce the pressures of  self-exclusion: Opposition may arise from the 
finding a basic living on a daily basis. provision of the transfer to rich individuals as it 
might seem to trump the idea of equity and state 
welfare for the poor.
Administrative efficiency: A UBI in  Exposure to market risks (cash vs. food): Unlike 
place of a plethora of separate govern­ food subsidies that are not subject to fluctuating 
ment schemes will reduce the adminis­ market prices, a cash transfers purchasing power 
trative burden on the stare. may severely be curtailed by market fluctuations.
F^ftiTi Ufaiqp
                 
       
   
   
   
                   
   
 
 
 
     
 
                     
                 
                 
                     
 
           
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER5
FOOD SECURITY
FOOD SECURITY
The first aspect of food security is the domestic availability of food grains. No country 
would ever be willing to depend on other countries for their requirement of food grains or 
agricultural commodities, unless it does not have any other option. Since Independence, 
India hast ravelled alo ng way towardsthe  foo d security,from  an im  porteroffoo d  grains,which  
ha snowach ieved  ‘self-sufficiency’in food gr ains,through the increased do mesticproduction.  
BufferStockofFoodGrains
       
India is one among the few countries in the world having government-held stock of food 
grains ,f orth efollowing  reaso ns:      
     
   (1)Bufferformeeting naturalcalamities;
       
(2) Pricestabilization in caseofcrop failures;
     
(3) Providing food grainsunderpublicdistribution system.
     
The government has buffer stock norms for different months in a year. At present, the
                         
maximum stock of the food grains of wheat and rice are to be held by the government, as
                       
bufferstock isT7million tonnesto meettheaforesaid objectives.
           
Food Corporation of India (FCI) has the prime responsibility of procuring the food 
               
grains and the procurement is done at minimum support price (MSP) and stored in its
                     
warehouses at different locations and from there it is supplied to the state governments
                     
in terms of requirement. FCI also sells in the open market to stabilize, if their prices turn 
                     
volatileespecially in periodsofcrop failures.
     
Certain issueswhich arearound bufferstock operationsarebriefed asfollows:
           
First, the government is currently  holding  many  multiples more than  that required 
             
under the norms of around over 50-60 million tonnes, even when higher stocks have been 
                 
held in the past. Why does the government hold higher stocks than required? It is because
                     
of the MSP of food grains and also the procurement price; and at that price government
                       
is mandatorily required to procure whatever arrives to FCI. If there is a bumper crop,
                     
FCI will have to procure the entire stock. Even if the market price of the food grain is
                           
higher, farmers prefer to sell to FCI because it procures in bulk. This leads in a buildup of
                         
stocks.
Second, FCI does not have enough storage capacity to hold the high levels of food 
                 
grain stocks. At present, the entire capacity of FCI is around 60 million tonnes, while
                   42 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
actual available storage, will not be more than 50 million tonnes. Even this storage is not 
appropriate .There is a tremendous wastage of around ₹ 50,000 crore annually by both on 
account improper and on inadequate storagef acilities.
The other aspect under food security is around the public distribution system (PDS). 
Food grains are distributed to the state governments at an ‘issue price’ for their distribution 
to  the  poor  through  the  PDS  at  prices,  much  below  their  economic  cost  (MSP  with 
transportation and storage cost). As a result, the government has to bear the differential 
cost between the economic cost and the price charged in the PDS, as ‘food subsidy’ of 
over ₹ 75,000 crore.
PDS was a general entitlement for all the consumers or citizens, where a fixed amount 
of food grains, sugar and edible oil were distributed through the dedicated government- 
owned shops or outlets at a rate or price lower than the prevailing market rate. In a bid, to 
ensure focus of PDS towards the poor or for the economically backward families and in 
an attempt to stop pilferage and diversion of food grains to the open market, a ‘Revamped 
Public Distribution System (RPDS)’ was launched in June 1992 in 1775 blocks (mostly 
backward and remote areas) throughout the country.
Subsequently, the Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS) was introduced effective 
from June 1997, which envisaged subsidized distribution of food grains to poor families 
(classified in India as below poverty line (BPL), above poverty line (APL) and poorest of 
the poor families identified as Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY). TPDS was amended with 
an intention to benefit around 6 crore (60 million) poor families for whom a quantity of 
about 7.2 million tonnes of food grains was earmarked annually.
The  identification of the  poor  under  the scheme is  performed by the states as per 
poverty estimates of Planning Commission of India. In 2000, in view of the consensus 
on increasing the allocation of food grains to BPL families, and also to better target the 
program, the Indian government has increased the allocation to BPL families from 10 
to 20 kg of food grains per family per month at 50 per cent of the economic cost and 
allocation to the APL families.
The number of BPL families has been increased by shifting the base to the population 
projections of the Registrar General as on 1 March 2000 instead of the earlier population 
projections of 1995. This has increased the total number of BPL families who are at present 
eligible for subsidized food grains. The allocation of food grains for the BPL families was 
further increased from 20 to 25 kg per family per month with effective from July 2001. 
Initially, the AAY families were provided 25 kg of food grains per family per month at the 
time of launching of the scheme in December 2000. The scale of issue of food grains under 
APL, BPL and AAY has been revised to 35 kg per family per month with effective as on 
1 April 2002 with a view to enhance the food security at the household level.
Under the  TPDS,  all  ration  card holders  have been segregated into APL and BPL 
families. The BPL families acquire food grains, sugar and kerosene at one-half of the price 
than that to the APL families.
Further, the central government has another scheme known as AAY launched during 
the year 2000, under which the bottom most 2.5 crore below poverty families get 35 kg of 
                       
riceat₹3 perkg and wheatat₹2 perkg through thesamefairpriceshops.
                       
Senior citizens of 65 years of age and above if not covered under National Old Age
             
Pension Schemeacquires10 kg offood grainsatfreeofcost.FOOD SECURITY 43
Issues in Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS)—Reasons
The main flaw in the system that a large chunk of those who are eligible for subsidized 
food  grains  under  BPL  category  have  been  left  out  leading  to  critically  question 
comprehensiveness of TPDS.
The criteria for inclusion in the BPL list are solely economical which is often understated 
or under reported because lack of availability of national income data. There are allegations 
that persons having political patronage have found a place in the BPL list. Not all BPL 
families are actually’ BPL, but are included. A large number of the very poor families 
are in the APL category and are thus denied their right for acquiring the subsidized food 
grains from TPDS.
Further, the BPL families graduating in terms of income criteria should technically 
be excluded as beneficiaries under BPL, however, they continue to do so. There is thus 
incentive to be classified as a BPL family; as a result no family would like this tag to go. 
In the existing system, there is ‘no exit but entry’ only, thus becoming an ever increasing 
liability of the government, in terms of increase subsidy bill and the benefits ‘not exactly’ 
those for whom it is intended.
Clearly, it is nott hes chemesb utth ede liverych annelw hichha sfai ledus .Sta rtingfro mthe  
                         
identification ofbeneficiaries,boguscards(intermsofarecentgovernment surveyover₹1.75
                               
croreareboguscards).Thereisnoattempttoreviewtherationcardswhichareissued.
 
The other is the large-scale black marketing, hoardings and their diversion to open
                         
market. Government resources, say that as much as 20 per cent of the food grains meant
                               
to be supplied under TPDS, find their own way in the open market. Even the quality of
                                 
food grains being supplied under TPDS is of suspect, given the conditions of storage in
                             
thewarehousesofFCI.
     
The TPDS in its current form is not only inefficient, but more importantly, it does not
                               
reach out to the poor people, besides wastage and diversion is rampant. It is ironical that
                               
a country like India has more than enough required buffer stock, excessive subsidization
                         
bythegovernment,yetthereishungerandabout270millionpoorpeopleinthe country.Canthis
                               
beknownas‘foodsecurity’inIndia?
               
NationalFoodSecurityAct
     
Distinctly, inclusion of the people has been a major issue in Targeted Public Distribution
                           
System (TPDS) and the government has tried to address by attempting a revamp of the
                             
TPDS, by moving away from ‘inclusion’ to that of‘exclusion’, or including a larger percent
                           
ofbothruralandurbanpopulationaspartofthe‘NationalFoodSecurity’bill.
                         
The National Food Security Bill, 2013 passed by the parliament on July 03,2013 gives
                           
right to subsidised food grain to 67 percent of India’s 1.2 billion people and provides for
                               
penalty for non-compliance by public servants. UPA II Government has taken a historic
                         
decision in its cabinet on July 03, 2013 to implement the National Food Security through
                             
Ordinance to start a 1.3 trillion rupee ($22 billion) welfare program that would bring cheap
                             
foodtohundredsofmillionsofpoorpeoplethroughoutthecountry.
                   
The National Food Security Act was passedo n1 0 thSe ptember,20 13w ithth eob jectiveto 
pr ovide fo odand  nut ritional sec urity inh um an life cycl e appr oach,bye nsu ring acces s toan 
ad equ atequanti tyofquali tyf oodata fforda ble pricestope opleto liv ealifew ith dign ity .Th eAct 
provides forc over ageofup to75 %ofther ura lpopu latio nan dup to50 %        44 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
of the urban population for receiving subsidized foodgrains under TPDS thus, covering 
about two-thirds of the population.
The special features of the National Food Security Act are:
1.  Up to three-quarters of people in the rural areas and up to half of the urban population
would get five kilograms of grains per month at subsidized prices (3 rupees per kilo 
for rice, 2 rupees per kilo for wheat and 1 rupee per kilo for coarse grains).
2. The poorest households would continue to receive 35 kilograms of grains per month 
under the “Antyodaya Anna Yojana” at subsidized prices.
3. Pregnant women and lactating mothers would receive a maternity benefit of at least 
6,000 rupees.
4. Children aged 6 months to 14 years would get take-home ration or hot cooked food. 
The central government also would provide money to states and union territories, 
if it has shortage / low stock of grain.
5. The central government would also provide “assistance” towards the cost of intra­
state transportation and handling of grains.
 6. In a bid to give women more authority in running their households, the oldest adult 
woman in each house would be considered the head of that household for issue of 
ration card.
What are the Issues around the Food Security Act?
Food  security  should  be  envisioned  around  a  ‘basic  nutrition  basket  of  goods’  aimed 
at  getting  rid  of  malnutrition  and  ensuring  nutrition  security’  of  its  population.  Mere 
inclusion of coarse cereals will not allow building nutrition security for its population. 
Various  international  reports  have  clearly  mentioned  that  addressing,  both  hunger  and 
malnutrition, should be accorded as the top most priority in India.
Both in terms of‘hunger’ and ‘malnutrition’, India ranks poorly. In terms of a study by 
the International Food Policy Research Institute, India is ranked 67 out of 84 countries in 
the Global Hunger Index.
Implementing such a scheme at a massive level, without addressing the inefficiencies 
in the delivery system, relative ability of the state governments, can well defeat the very 
purpose of the scheme, of reaching out to the poor.
Procurement of food grains of such magnitude would require not only augmenting but 
also scaling-up storage capacity and improving the facilities in storing them. India may 
well need to import food grains which would impact global food prices and also impacting 
their prices in India.
It  is  not  about  the  magnitude  of  the  subsidy  bill  and  their  provision  made  in  the 
present  budget.  It  is  the  continuous  and  the  increasing  liability of any  government  in 
perpetuity. How long can it be sustained in the future? Will such a scheme not provide 
complacency to its population, of shying away from work with the ‘assured food available’ 
without working to earn to buy the food?
What Needs to be Done as a Part of Food Security?
Initially, there is a need to have a mechanism to identify the beneficiaries or the poor 
people. BPL cards are of conclusive proof of them being beneficiaries, but ‘not a conclusive FOOD SECURITY 45
proof of being below poverty line’. This is the biggest challenge in addressing food security 
in India.
The government has set up the Unique Identification Authority of India, the first of its 
Kind in the world with the ambitious objective of allotting biometric twelve digit unique 
ID number to each and every person in the country under ‘Aadhaar project’. However, the 
talks about the project will provide only a unique ‘identity’ to the people but not enable 
ascertaining ‘income or consumption expenditure’ of the people, which is required for 
identification of beneficiaries.
The  best  way,  which  the  government  is  proposing,  is  by  following  the  ‘exclusion 
method’,  of  excluding  certain  categories  as  beneficiaries,  rather  than  identifying  the 
targeted beneficiaries. However, even this will require broad consensus on the categories 
to be excluded and cannot be left to the state governments for uniformity purposes. One 
category may be excluded by one state but the same category may be included by some 
other state. Broad parameters of exclusion should be spelt out by the central government 
through a process of consensus and leave the fine tuning to the respective state governments.
As mentioned earlier, food security should be seen as ‘nutrition security’ providing food 
grains to the people with ‘mal nutrition’ is a bigger damage. Objective of the government 
should be not only to ‘feed’ but also have a ‘fit’ population.
The  entire  TPDS  operations  of  procurement,  storage,  movement  and  its  ultimate 
distribution  to  the  poor  should  be  computerized  with  a  technology  leveraged  tracking 
mechanism throughout the country. Even though iti sa di fficult ta sk,it can  becre ated by the
gov ernment with  thehelp  ofcreati ng adatab aseo fthee nti rep opulati on,through  theAadhaar 
scheme’. Itisalso f ea sib leto havean  efficien tfood mana gementsystem.  
Storage capacity has to be increased at least by about 15—20 million tonnes in the 
immediate short run. There is a need to adopt the public private sector partnership (PPP) 
for  streamlining  storage,  storage  facilities  transportation  and  establishing  an  efficient 
delivery chain.
Any subsidy mechanism is always inefficient as there is bound to be leakages, no matter 
what efforts are made, to plug them. The only better way to reach out to the poor people 
is providing direct income support, to the extent subsidy is to be given. For example, if the 
government desires to givet o thep oorp eopleri ceat ₹3  p erkg a sagain stamar ke tprice ofsay    
       
₹15 perkg in themarket.
                             
Thepoorpeoplecan beaprovided an incomesupportof ₹12 perkg.Thisispossibleifthe
                   
governmenthasboth theiridentity and accessto theiraccountwheretheamountcan becredited.
               
Alternatively,smartcardswith embedded monetary valuescan begiven to thepoorpeoplefor
           
purchasing food grainsatmarkerprices.
                       
Finally, at a more fundamental level, food security should be, as well said, ‘Never give
               
apoorperson afish to eatbutratherteach himhowto fish’.
                   
The central problem in  India is creating  employment opportunities for the people.
                       
India has to work around it, as larger part of sustainable food security for the people, of
           
their relative ability to earn a livelihood with which, they can purchase what they wish 
       
to  consume. Focusing  on  improved  agricultural productivity, work  around  the supply 
                   
chain so that ‘availability of the minimum nutrition basket at reasonable prices is always
ensured’.46 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Government should provide subsidized food basket, to those physically handicapped, 
those incapable of entering employment stream, senior citizens and other such classes as 
the government may deem fit, ‘but as matter of exception rather than a rule’.
Food security has to be seen in broader context covering hunger, malnutrition, absolute poverty, 
addressing inefficiencies in the delivery channel, stream lining identification of beneficiaries, all aimed 
at improving living conditions of the people and getting rid of absolute poverty from the country.
5.2. CHALLENGES BEFORE INDIA IN ACHIEVING FOOD
SECURITY.
India is still housing a large number of poor people and is still ranking below in human 
development  report.  Country  needs  to  address  the  following  challenges  on  an  urgent 
footing to achieve the objectives of accessibility, affordability and availability of food for all.
•  Faulty food distribution system
•  Unmonitored nutritional programmes
•  Absence of intersectoral coordination
•  Improvement in Agricultural productivity
•  Mechanism for effective and sustainable food storage
•  Ensuring food availability and accessibility to BPL families
•  Improvement in purchasing power through employment generation
•  Diversification of crops and establishment of food grain banks
•  Improvement of community awareness through social auditing
•  Ensuring timely evaluation of nutritional programmes
•  Promotion of community participation with better coordination
               
   
   
   
       
               
 
 
 
     
CHAPTER6
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
6.11 'WHY' IS AGRICULTURE SECTOR IMPORTANT
FOR INDIA?
In the previous section, we had dealt about agriculture sector which has about 60 per cent 
plus  population-dependence,  an  aspect  which  has  been  there  since  Independence.  This 
sector provides us with food security and raw material for manufacturing sector.
Each and every country would like to be self-sufficient for its requirements of food 
grains, pulses, sugar, edible oils, milk, fruits and vegetables.
India has the largest number of villages of over 6,00,000. Majority of our population 
resides in villages. No other country has so many villages.
India’s agricultural sector is characterized by traditional, subsistence and livelihood, 
rain fed farming, food grain oriented, lacking in diversification and commercialization. 
Over 80 per cent of the farmers are landless, small and marginal farmers with cultivation 
for consumption and little diversification. Agricultural finance is informal with reliance 
on the money lenders. It is said about India that majority of our economic issues are 
primarily of poverty and unemployment and both the problems and their resolution lie 
in the agricultural sector.
There is enough literature available on agriculture in standard text books on Indian 
Economy. It would be suffice to say here that the key issues in agriculture are to increase 
production through distinct improved productivity.
'Why' is Productivity Important?
In the earlier years, production could be increased by bringing in more and more land 
under  cultivation  without  addressing  productivity.  However,  today  all  available  arable 
land is already under cultivation which means production can be increased only through 
increased productivity.
With the  increasing population,i ncreased incomeses pecially ofthe poo rin th efuture would  
increase thedem and  foragricultu ral products manifold. Whatwou ld hap pen ifproductivity  
doesnotincrease? Itw ould mea n ‘ supply’notsufficient f or‘ demand’w hic h would r esultin 
increased pri cesoffood items,asi tha ppened in 20 09 -20 10 with food inflation climbing over
15 percentin ashortpe riod.As ever yone willb eaware tha tfood inf lation  w illhurt allb utthe
poorwillbeh itmu ch  hard er.         AGRICULTURE SECTOR 49
Agriculture sector is considered as very vulnerable because it is one sector where demand 
will only keep on increasing and supply willalw aysbev ola tilewith  so many structuralfactors 
and oth erslikemo nsoo n dependenceasonly 4 0  percentland  isir rigated .
               
Realizing theimportanceoffood grainsway back in thesixties,thegovernmentushered in 
                 
the‘Green Revolution’pioneered by DrM.S.Swaminathan,to improve theproductivity of
           
wheatand othercereals,through researched improved seedsknown ashigh yielding varieties
                     
HYV)seeds.Thiswasthefirsttimewhereascientificapproach wasadopted and with measured 
             
applicationsoffertilizers,insecticides/pesticides,productivity ofwheatquadrupled.Thesuccess
                     
story wasmadepossibleonly by creating therightmodelofoptimalland size,assured/adequate
                   
water supply,soil conduciveness in theareas such asPunjab,Haryana and Western  Uttar
 
Pradesh.
                 
However, it was more of an experiment to see how to improve productivity especially 
               
of wheat. Much of the self-sufficiency in wheat can be attributed to the Green Revolution.
                 
Our attempts with other revolutions in the agriculture sector were centred around products
     
and theirrelativeimportancesuch as:
   
• WhiteRevolution (milk and milk products).
     
• YellowRevolution (oilseeds).
     
• BlueRevolution (marineproducts).
 
• Golden Revolution (Honey).
   
• Golden FibreRevolution (Jute).
     
• SilverFibreRevolution (Cotton).
 
• Brown Revolution (Cocoa).
   
PrimarySectorRevolutions
             
The numerous revolutions affecting the productivity of agriculture and allied activities in 
   
Indiaarehighlighted below:
         
1. Agriculture Revolution: Green  Revolution  Also  known  as Seed-Water-Fertilizers-
                     
Pesticides Technology  In  1965, under the aegis of Late Mrs. Indira Gandhi the
           
then PM, resolute to mark historic revamp in Agriculture sector named as “Green 
             
Revolution” that was implemented during 1967-1978 in phases in the state of Punjab 
     
and Haryana,w.r.t.Wheatand Rice.
             
2. White Revolution: Operation  flood  a program initiated  under supervisory  of
             
National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) in year of 1970 put India on world 
                   
map by making India the largest producer of milk. The father of White Revolution 
       
in 1949 Mr. V. Kurien joined Amul (Anand Milk Union Limited) formerly known 
               
as Kaira District Co-operative Milk  Producers’ Union  (KDCMPUL). Later the
                     
movement in 1965,undertheleadership o fLateShriLalBahadur Shastri,the thenPM, 
         
establishedNatio nalDairyDevelo pmentBoard(NDDB ).OperationFloodwa scomp leted
 
infollowin gt hreephase s:
     
• PhaseI(1970-79)
     
• PhaseII(1981-1985)
     
• PhaseIII(1985-1996)50 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
3.  Yellow Revolution: Oil Seeds Revolution Also known as the People Power Revolution. 
Was  a  result  of  series  of  demonstrations  that  took  place  from  1983-1986  in  the 
Philippines.
4.  Blue Revolution: Development of Fisheries in the country
5.  Brown Revolution: is known for Leather/non-conventional (India)/Cocoa Production
&  Tomato  production.  A  'BROWN  revolution’  happening  in  the  tribal  areas  of 
Visakhapatnam district w.r.t. cocoa, where the tribal people are being not only taught 
but  at  the  same  time  encouraged,  to  grow  “socially  responsible  and  environment 
friendly” coffee to cater to the demand from developed countries.
6.  Black Revolution: known for Petroleum Production
7.  Grey Revolution: known for Fertilizer Development
8.  Golden revolution: ‘Golden Revolution’ is the period between 1991-2003.
9.  Golden Fiber Revolution: known for Jute Production
10. Pink Revolution: is for Onion production/Pharmaceutical/Prawn production
11. Red Revolution: is for Meat production
12. Round Revolution: for Potato production
13. Silver Revolution: for Egg/Poultry production
14. Silver Fiber Revolution: for Cotton production
15. Almond Revolution: for Spice production
16. Evergreen Revolution: relates to Overall development of Agriculture
17. Ambrosia Revolution: For Connecting Rivers
Revolution Product Father (India)
Black Petroleum
Blue Fish Dr. Hiralal Chaudhary (induced 
breeding)/Dr. Arun Krishnan
Brown Leather, cocoa, non - 
conventional energy
Golden fiber Jute
Golden Overall horticulture, honey, Fruit Nirpakh Tutej
Green Food grains World: Dr. Norman Borlaug 
India: MS Swaminathan
Grey Fertilizer
Pink Onion, Prawn, Pharmaceuticals,  Durgesh Patel
modernizing of meat and poultry 
processing
Red Meat, tomato Vishal Tewari
Round Potato
Silver fiber Cotton
Silver Egg Indira GandhiAGRICULTURE SECTOR 51
Revolution Product Father (India)
White Dairy/milk Dr. Verghese Kurien
Yellow (Also  Oil Seeds, Edible Oil, Especially  Sam Pitroda
known as people  Mustard and Sunflower.
power)
Saffron Solar Energy
Revolution
6.2.PI NKREVOLUTION
Pink  revolution  primarily  referred  as  for  onion,  prawns  and  pharma  industry,  but  the 
2nd  generation  pink  revolution  focusing  on  modernisation  of  meat  and  poultry  has 
attained the number 1 position in the world in exports of buffalo meat in 2012, exporting 
approximately 1.5 million metric tons of beef, according to the United States Department 
of Agriculture (USDA) Foreign Agricultural Service. The major importers are from Middle 
East and South East Asia countries. Further, it was also found that the broiler meat (i.e. 
chicken) sector has witnessed a 30 percent growth rate since the year 2009, at the same 
time it is placed amongst the fastest growing sectors in the Indian economy at a rate of 
8 percent. This increase has been largely attributable to growing domestic demand. The 
Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO) has acknowledged India’s potential 
and effective measures towards ‘pink revolution’ by fostering modernization of its meat 
and poultry processing units. Accordingly, in a report titled the ‘Indian Meat Industry 
Perspective’, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO) has recommended 
an outlined four steps framework that India must adopt and adhere to it for the success of 
pink revolution are as follows:
1. Setting up state of the art meat processing plants;
2.  Developing technologies to raise male buffalo calves for meat production;
3.  Increasing the number of farmers rearing buffalo under contractual farming;
4.  Establishing disease-free zones for rearing animals.
Environmental and Health Hazards
Although, the robust performance of the sector is too lucrative but at the same time there 
are some environmental riders to be borne in mind. As per an article being published in 
Environmental Science and Technology Journal, titled ‘Food-miles and the relative climate 
impacts of food choices in the US’, the data shows United States red meat production 
accounts for 30 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions so created while poultry and 
dairy contribute 28 percent of emissions. Thus, now we can cannot be ignorant with the 
fact that India is now largest exporter of meat in the world which will in turn pointing 
at the level of green house gas emission. Another vital area of concern is the managing 
risk  w.r.t.  meat  borne  pathogens  like  E.coli,  Salmonella,  Campylobacter,  Listeria  and 
Yesinia, also at the same time other diseases of concern to public health, and the control 
of pesticide residues.52 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Potential and challenges of Pink Revolution in India
Growth Potentials
•  To increase present meat consumption per capita of 6 grams approx, per day to 50 
grams a day in the next decade or so.
•  India accounts only 2 percent approx of global market in light of large live stock count
•  Growing rate is varying between range of between 8-15 per cent annually, and is now 
worth more than 700 billion dollars.
Challenges
•  Drafting  of  standard  policies  for  the  sector  w.r.t.  meat  production  and  export, 
standardizing  the  quality  and  safety  aspects  of  meat  and  poultry,  and  creating 
infrastructure facilities for modern slaughter houses, meat testing facilities and cold 
storages for the growth of the meat and poultry processing sector.
•  Implementation of 4 areas highlighted by FAO of UN
•  Better hygienic methods required in meat and poultry processing
•  Channelizing of increased and high volume of investment s in the sector.
Government Policies
•  No income tax or central excise.
•  No  restrictions imposed  upon the  export  of  poultry  and  poultry products, and the 
government provides some transport subsidiaries.
•  100 per cent FDI is being permitted to tap into available opportunities across the 
sector.
•  Comprehensive scheme being launched for the modernization of abattoirs across the 
country  in  order  to  address  quality  standards,  contamination  and  deterioration  of 
produce, and the amount of meat wasted.
More recently, Rainbow Revolution (includes horticulture comprising of fruits, vegetables, 
floriculture, plantation crops, spices, etc.).
India is one among the largest producers of various agricultural goods in terms of area 
under cultivation and production; however, it clearly lags behind in the productivity in all 
major crops which is not sufficient for the domestic market as is evident in their increasing 
prices. It is not sufficient enough to be satisfied as the largest producer of pulses, coconut, 
ginger, turmeric, pepper, milk or even the fact that India is the second largest producer of 
rice, wheat, ground nut, fruits and vegetables. It has to be seen in relation to the relative 
domestic demand and productivity rather than only production.
India is blessed with large land area whereas, China has lesser arable land than us but 
its agricultural production is double than that of India. Clearly, productivity is the chief 
differentiator between India and China.
Another  concern  is  that  the  average  annual  growth  of  agricultural  production  right 
since Independence has been only 2.5 per cent. This is very low keeping in view the 
domestic  needs.  Food  grains  output  has  been  trapped  between  175  and  200  million 
tonnes of which wheat has stagnated around 70 million tonnes in the last few years. There AGRICULTURE SECTOR 53
is  an  urgent  requirement  to  increase  the  production  which  can  happen  only  with  the 
increased productivity.
Growth in agricultural production is seen as a multiplier for the rest of the economy 
as it helps in augmenting supply of food products thereby cooling prices. It also increases 
income of the farmers and thus greater demand for non-agricultural goods giving incentive 
to the industrial sector to produce more and provide an upward spiral in growth.
6.3 NEW AGRICULTURAL POLICY 2000
The government realizing the importance of the agriculture sector formulated the New 
Agricultural Policy during 2000, which has tried to give a new direction to the agriculture 
sector which has the following salient features:
•   Agricultur e secto r ha s to grow  at  an average annual growth of a minimum  4 per c ent
over the next few decades.
•  Greater  focus  has  to  be  given  on  horticulture,  animal  husbandry,  poultry,  dairy, 
aquaculture given their potential and their twin ability to raise the plank of growth 
and increase purchasing power.
•  Need to provide food and nutrition security.
•  There  is  a  requirement  for  greater  biotechnology  use,  newer  plant  varieties  and 
their  protection  through  suitable  legislation,  greater  thrust  on  scientific  farming, 
dissemination of technology advancements.
•  Focus on agro and social forestry for maintaining ecological imbalances.
•  Regular supply of price protection to farmers through the minimum support price system.
•  Dismantling restrictions on movements of agricultural commodities.
•  Increase  public  investment  in  agriculture  sector  especially  rural  electrification, 
irrigation projects, watershed development, etc.
•  Create off-farm employment opportunities through promotion of agro-processing units.
•  Land reforms to be provided a decisive thrust for better land distribution, consolidation 
and re-distribution of surplus land to landless farmers.
•  National Agriculture Insurance Corporation should provide insurance cover in case of 
crop failure, droughts, etc.
•  Allowing private sector participation through contract farming.
The new agricultural policy of the central government is only indicative in nature as agriculture 
being in the statel istfa llsw ithin thedo main ofres pectivestat egov ernmentswhi ch would have
there spon sibility to implementthepol icy.M  any ex pertsincluding  PrimeMinisterM anmohan  
Singh feelthatIndia’sa gric ultures ectorrequir esa‘G reen Rev ol ution II.
AGRICULTURE EXPORT POLICY, 2018
In order to provide an impetus to agricultural exports, the Government has come out with a 
comprehensive ‘Agriculture Export Policy” with an aim at doubling the agricultural exports 
and integrating Indian farmers and Indian products with the global value chains.54 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The Agriculture Export Policy envisions in harnessing the export potential of Indian 
agriculture to transform India as a global power in agriculture and raise farmers income.
Policy Objectives
•  Doubling agricultural exports from present -USS 30+ Billion to -USS 60+ Billion 
by 2022 and reach US$ 100 Billion in the next few years thereafter, with a sustained 
trade policy regime.
•  Diversify India’s export basket and destinations by boosting value added agricultural 
exports.
•  Promote  indigenous,  organic,  traditional  and  non-traditional  Agricultural  products 
exports.
•  Provide institutional mechanisms for pursuing market access, addressing trade barriers 
and deal with sanitary and phyto-sanitary issues.
•  Strive to double India’s share in world agri exports by integrating with global value 
chain.
•  Enable farmers to get benefit of export opportunities from global market.
RAINBOW REVOLUTION
The  earlier  Green  Revolution  was  centred  on  wheat  and  now  what  is  required  is  a 
comprehensive revolution, which covers the entire agriculture sector known as Rainbow 
Revolution and it essentially means the following:
•  Agricultural  activities  to  change  from  subsistence  and  livelihood  activities to as a 
commercial venture with focus on productivity and profitability.
•  Crop diversification, commercialization, moving up the value addition chain.
•  Intensification of research and should ensure their effective dissemination amongst 
farmers.
•  Agricultural extension service, which is transmission of appropriate technology from 
lab to land, has virtually collapsed in India. Less than 1 per cent of farmers make use 
of the extension services (Krishi Vigyan Kendra). Block level extension services are not 
equipped with the latest advancements in technology. There is an urgent requirement 
of their integration in the agriculture sector to close the knowledge gap.
•  Allowing modern science, biotechnology, organic farming to be blended within the 
agriculture sector.
•  Farmers to move away from two-crop cycle to shorter duration crops allowing for 
multiple cropping.
•  Stress on completion of irrigation projects to get more and more land under irrigation.
•  Increase both on and off farm employment.
•  Focusing on rural transportation.
•  The farmer should become the fulcrum and efforts made to improve his standards of 
living and in his prosperity, lies the prosperity of the agriculture sector and the Indian 
Economy.AGRICULTURE SECTOR 55
Dr M. S. Swaminathan, an agricultural economist, however, feels that India needs ‘Ever 
Green  Revolution’  for  long-term  sustainability.  It  cannot  be  achieved  in  one  shot  but 
continuous shots at improving production and productivity, suitable blend of the traditional 
with modern, focused on locally renewable sources of energy, organic farming and making 
inputs and credit available to the farmers, as fundamentally more important today.
Agriculture  sector  right  since  Independence  has  been  a  thrust  area,  with  increased 
investments  in  each  successive  five-year  plans,  but  problems  have  not  only  remained 
unresolved but only accentuated over a period of time with large-scale rural poverty.
MINIMUM SUPPORT PRICE (MSP)
The  government  announces  the  minimum  support  price  (MSP)  for  twenty-four  crops 
including rice, wheat, pulses, sugarcane prior to harvest which is to say that the minimum 
price of crops in the market would not be less than the MSP announced for the crop. Of 
the  MSP  announced  for  various  crops,  the  government  through  Food  Corporation  of 
India, as discussed in an earlier chapter, directly procures wheat and rice for meeting buffer 
stock requirements and also to channelize the food grains to the poor through various 
government sponsored schemes. For the remaining crops, the government would ensure a 
price which is higher than the MSP in the market.
Fruits  and  vegetables  are  sold  to  the  agriculture  produce  marketing  cooperatives 
(APMC) of the respective state governments, which also fix the price keeping in view their 
relative cost and also ensure the farmer obtains a fair price.
The delivery channel has a number of middle men, who serve as bottlenecks and also 
responsible for increased prices, large-scale hoardings and also prevents the farmer from 
getting benefits of increased prices.
The MSP allows a farmer knowing the price which he would get for the produce in 
the market especially for the food grains, but it is also believed that the benefits largely 
go to the bigger farmers, besides the MSP has prevented diversification of the agriculture 
sector. Many critics have favored discontinuation  o fth eMSP, but the large scale small and 
marginal farmersd o benefit,e ven though alar gerchu nk oftheb enef itisreap ed  by theaffluent 
farmers .Furtheri tmay be to o prema tureforI ndia,pr esen tly to  movetowardsamar ketpricin g  
forfood  grains.  
INDIAN AGRICULTURE—TEN NEW THOUGHTS
Agriculture sector in India requires an out-of-box thinking keeping in mind the criticality 
of this sector.
At first, the scientific/modem genetic engineered farming today is crucial for India’s future.
Secondly, the markets for the farmers are distorted, not enabling them to get the best 
prices and there is a need to connect the farmer directly with the markets what is referred 
as F(Farmer) • F(firm) • F(fork).
At present, selling of agricultural commodities is under the APMCs of the respective 
state government. Today, technology/internet provides not only for domestic access but 
also for global access.56 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Farmers would need to be sensitized towards accessing those markets which get them a 
better pricing. This would also do away with the inefficient middle men syndrome, which 
are intermediaries with no contribution and on the contrary are largely responsible for 
distorting, hoardings and other such malpractices.
Third, is contract farming which also allows for direct contact of the farmer with the 
market. Under this, the land is with the farmer except that production of a crop is under 
a ‘contract’ with a buyer directly who also has the responsibility of providing necessary 
inputs and also picking up the produce whenever ready.
This will however require two critical supports from the government:
•  Amendments to the respective APMC of different state governments.
•  Enacting legislations to ensure that interest of the farmers is adequately protected. 
Fourthly,  a  serious  thought  would  have  to  be  afforded  to  corporate  farming  which 
allows private sector players to enter into agricultural activities. It is not true that this 
step  would  lead  to  greater  marginalization  and  exploitation  of  the  small  and  marginal 
farmers.
There is a larger take away in the form of increased productivity, commercialization, 
diversification,  greater  value-addition,  greater  and  efficient  use  of  land,  building  an 
efficient  supply  chain, increased  investment and  readily  absorbed modern technologies. 
Almost 40 per cent of food products are wasted and destroyed in the absence of supply 
chain which can easily be plugged by the large corporates resulting in increased supply of 
food products and this would lead to lower prices in the markets.
Fifthly, what is required today is complete mapping of soils across the length and 
breadth of the country, superimposed with historical data of the climate, rainfall, crop 
suitability  and  then  decide  on  the  cropping  pattern.  Today,  technology  information  is 
available  to  allow  for  soil,  climate-based  cropping  pattern  and  not  on  traditional  and 
historical-based cropping pattern.
Sixthly, need of growth will start to encroach upon land for setting up the special 
economic zones, setting up power plants, building roads, etc., which means in future the 
land available for agriculture would gradually be reduced.
In  terms  of  The  National  Bureau  of  Soil  Survey  and  Land,  Government  of  India, 
land under non-agriculture has increased from 3 per cent in 1950—51 to over 11 per 
cent  presently.  This  makes  increasing  productivity  not  only  important  but  an  absolute 
‘Must’.
Seventhly, there is an increasing trend amongst farmers in the belief of agriculture as 
non-viable and unprofitable provided, the increasing cost of production and they exiting 
by selling the land for industrial activities. In recent times, the government is also declaring 
large land area as non-agriculture to support industrial growth.
Herein, lies the challenges of balancing both but larger challenge would be to reestablish 
agricultural activities as not only viable but also as a profitable commercial proposition.
Eighth, is the land reforms which have been an avowed objective since Independence 
but little has been done and still lesser achieved. There is a need for this to be prioritized by 
the state governments. Further efforts should be made to computerize land records such 
as the ‘Bhoomi Project in Karnataka’ and web-based land records under the ‘Dharitree 
Project in Assam’. India also has large waste land area which could be given to rural AGRICULTURE SECTOR 57
landless  people  on ownership basis at free  ofc ost fo r in tegrated  farming -cum -forestr y 
o perations.T hisw ould  servethe obj ectiveofu tili zation ofwaste land b esidesgiving  thelandless 
         
farmersasourceoflivelihood.
Ninthly, current agriculture sector is starved of investment and it receives as little as 0.3 
per cent of GDP. There is an urgent need to step up public investment in irrigation, roads, 
power and public health.
Finally, today strategy for agriculture sector would have to be broken down to the last 
unit which is the village or at best district level. Issues at each district level would need to 
be prioritized and then efforts should be made for their resolution.
What  the  agriculture  sector  needs  is  not  another  green  or  rainbow  or  evergreen 
revolution but a renaissance which is rebuilding the agriculture sector.
   
SECONDGREENREVOLUTION
The present status of agriculture in India is the result of green revolution of late 1960s. 
The  first  green  revolution  has  delivered  India  food  security  which  was  critical  during 
those times. This progress and security had its own costs in terms of environment and 
economic viability as it rampantly used fertilizers and other chemicals. Since the current 
state of agriculture is not sustainable, new agriculture policy of India aims at sustainable 
agriculture, which is popularly called ‘second green revolution’ or ‘Evergreen Revolution’.
       
NATIONALMISSIONFORSUSTAINABLEAGRICULTURE
As an important component under National Action Plan on Climate Change, the national 
mission for Sustainable Agriculture aims to address issues regarding the Agriculture in the 
context of risks associated with climate change. The mission includes strategies for food 
security, equitable access to food resources, enhancement of livelihood opportunities and 
contribution to economic stability at the national level.
This mission seeks to transform Indian agriculture into a climate resilient production 
system in the domain of crops and animal husbandry. The mission tries to absorb improved 
technology,  best  practices,  creation  of  physical  and  financial  infrastructure,  access  to 
information and promotion of capacity building towards sustainable agriculture.
       
FOOD PROCESSING INDUSTRY—AN OVERVIEW,
   
OPPORTUNITIESANDCHALLENGES
   
India'sAgrarianStrength
India produces 200 million tonnes of food grains of which it is one among the largest 
producers of wheat and rice. It is the second largest producer of groundnuts, fruits and 
vegetables, which accounts for 10 per cent of the world’s fruits production and the country 
is leading in the production of mangoes and bananas. India is the world’s largest producer58 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
of  milk  owing  to  the  strong  business  models  which  are  formed  through  cooperative 
movements  in  the  country.  Meat  and  poultry  has  also  gained  popularity  due  to  the 
emergence of producers that have integrated breeding, feed milling, contract growing and 
marketing facilities which results in improved productivity. Meat, fish and poultry are in 
rural areas as they are easily affordable and provide necessary nutrients.
In recent years, there has been a shift from conventional farming of food grains to 
horticulture which includes fruits, vegetables, ornamental crops, medicinal and aromatic 
plants, spices and plantation crops including coconut, cashew nuts and cocoa and allied 
activities.
Nascent Food Processing
Despite  the  agrarian  strength  of  production  in  India,  food  processing  industry  is  still 
in  a  nascent  stage  but  holds  tremendous  potential  to  grow,  considering  the  wide- 
ranging  and  large  raw  material  base  that  the  country  offers,  along  with  a  consumer 
base of over one billion people. This industry holds tremendous opportunities for large 
investments  and  an  untapped  market.  Even  though  India’s  agricultural  production  base 
is  reasonably  strong,  it  has  low productivity and is largely a livelihood activity. It  is 
also characterized by high levels of wastage of over 35 per cent especially in fruits and 
vegetables.
Processing of fruits and vegetables is low 2 per cent, around 35 per cent in milk, 
21 per cent in meat and 6 per cent in poultry products. By international comparison, 
these levels are significantly low—processing of agricultural produce is around 40 per cent 
in China, 30 per cent in Thailand, 70 per cent in Brazil, 78 per cent in the Philippines 
and 80 per cent in Malaysia. Value addition in agriculture produce in India is hardly 
20 per cent.
The other important aspect is organized sector which has very little presence and largely 
dominated by the unorganized sector. For example, in fruits and vegetables segment over 
90 per cent is by the unorganized sector.
The food processing industry in India has a very small share of 1.5 per cent in the 
total  GDP  of  the  country  and  as  a  part  of  total  manufacturing  accounts  for  around 
9  per  cent.  India’s  share  in  world  trade  in  respect  of  processed  food  is  only  about 
1.6 per cent.
Potential of the Food Processing Industry
The Indian food industry is poised for a huge growth, increasing its contribution to world 
food trade every year. In India, the food sector has emerged as a high-growth and high- 
profit sector due to its immense potential for value addition, particularly within the food 
processing industry.
The food industry, which is currently valued at USS 39.71 billion, is expected to grow 
at a Compounded Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 11 per cent to US$65.4 billion by 
2018. Food and grocery account for around 31 per cent of India’s consumption basket.
Accounting for about 32 per cent of the country’s total food market, The Government 
of India has been instrumental in the growth and development of the food processing AGRICULTURE SECTOR 59
industry. The government  through theM  inistry ofF ood Processing Industries (M  oFPI)is 
m aking alleff ortsto e ncourageinve stments in the  busine ss.Ithasa pp rove d proposalsforjoint 
ven tures (JV),fore ign col laborations,industriallic ensesand  100p erc entexportorie nted u nits.  
The Indian food and grocery market is the worlds sixth largest, with retail contributing 
to 70 p er cent of the sales. Food has als o  been  one of the largest se gments in  India’s retail
sector, w hich  wa s v alued  at USS 4 90 billion in 2 01 3. T he Ind ian food  retail mar ket is 
expecte d to reach R s61 lakh c rore( USS894.98 billion)by  2020 .      
According to the  Confederati on of Indian Industr y (CII), the food processing sector
has the potential to  attract US $33 b illion of investment in  10  years and can generate 
emp loym  entof9 m  illion per son-d ays.        
   
MinistryforFood Processing Industries
   
Realizing the importance of food processing and its potential in India, the government has
set up a sepa rate Ministr y f or Food Processing Indu stries dur ing 1998 , wi th the follow ing  
und erits purview:         
• Fr uit and vegetableprocessing (including freezing and dehydration)
•  Grain  processing  
•  Processing offish (including canning and freezing)
•  Processing a nd refrigeration of certain agricultural products, dairy products, poultry 
  and eggs,meatand meatproducts       
     
•  Industries that are related to bread, oil seeds, meals (edible), breakfast foods, biscuits, 
confectionery, malte xtract,pr otein isolate,high  protein food,weanin g food and extruded 
food products(includin g otherready-to-e atfoods)  
•  Beer, including non-alcoholic beer
•  Alcoholic drinks from non-molasses base
•  Aerated water and soft drinks
The vision 2015 for the food processing sector aims at the following:
•  Enhancing and stabilizing the income level of the farmers
•  Providing choice to consumers in terms of wide variety and taste including traditional 
ethnic food
•  Providing greater assurance in terms of safety and quality of food to consumers
•  On promoting a dynamic food processing industry
•  Enhancing the competitiveness of food processing industry in both domestic as well 
as international markets
•  To establish the food processing sector attractive for both domestic and foreign investors
•  Achieving integration of the food processing infrastructure from farm to market
•  Having a transparent and industry friendly regulatory regime
•  Arranging in place a transparent system of standards based on science 
The following specific targets have been set out for the year 2015:
•  Increase in the level of processing of perishables from 6 to 20 per cent
•  Increase in value addition from 20 to 35 per cent
•  Share in global food trade to increase from 1.5 to 3 per cent60 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Government Initiative
Some of the major initiatives taken by the Government of India to improve the food 
processing sector in India are as follows:
•  The  Government  of  India  allocated  Rs  1,500  crore  (US$  225.7  million)  and 
announced  various  measures  under  the  Merchandise  Exports  from  India  Scheme 
(MEIS), including setting up of agencies for aquaculture and fisheries in coastal states 
and export incentives for marine products.
•  Union  Budget  2016-17  has  proposed  100  per  cent  FDI  through  FIPB  (Foreign 
Investment  Promotion  Board)  route  in  marketing  of  food  products  produced  and 
manufactured in India.
•  All of the ration cards in India have been digitised and 42 per cent of the digitised 
ration cards are now linked to Unique Identification (UID) or Aadhaar cards.
•  Government of India plans to allow two Indian dairy companies, Parag Milk Foods 
and Schreiber Dynamix Dairies, to export milk products to Russia for six months, after 
these companies got approval for their products by Russian inspection authorities.
•  Ms  Harsimrat  Kaur  Badal,  Union  Minister  for  Food  Processing  Industries. 
Government of India inaugurated the first of its kind Rs 136 crore (USS 20 million) 
mega  international  food  park  at  Dabwala  Kalan,  Punjab.  She  has  also  expressed 
confidence that the decision to allow 100 per cent Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) 
in multi-brand retail with 100 per cent local sourcing condition, will act as a catalyst 
for the food processing sector, thereby controlling inflation, uplifting the condition of 
farmers, and creating more jobs in the country.
•  The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has issued new rules for 
importing  products,  to  address  concerns  over  the  entry  of  sub-standard  items  and 
simplify the process by setting shelf-life norms and relaxing labelling guidelines.
•  The  Ministry  of  Food  Processing  Industries  announced  a  scheme  for  Human 
Resource  Development  (HRD)  in  the  food  processing  sector.  The  HRD  scheme  is 
being implemented through State Governments under the National Mission on Food 
Processing. The scheme has the following four components:
♦  Creation of infrastructure facilities for degree/diploma courses in food processing 
sector
♦  Entrepreneurship Development Programme (EDP)
♦  Food Processing Training Centres (FPTC)
♦  Training at recognised institutions at State/National level
•  The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) under the Ministry of 
Health and Family Welfare has issued the Food Safety and Standards (Food Product 
Standards and Food Additives) Regulations, 2011 and the Food Safety and Standards 
(Contaminants, Toxins and Residues) Regulations, 2011 which prescribe the quality 
and safety standards, respectively for food products.
•  The Ministry of Food Processing Industries has taken some new initiatives to develop 
the food processing sector which will also help to enhance the incomes of farmers and 
export of agro and processed foods among others.
•  Spices Board, set up by the Ministry of Commerce to develop and promote Indian 
spices worldwide, aims spice exports of USS 3 billion by 2017.AGRICULTURE SECTOR 61
•  The Government of India has approved the setting up of five numbers of Mega Food 
Parks in the states of Bihar, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The 
Government plans to set up 42 such mega food parks across the country in next three 
to four years.
•  In the Budget 2015-16, a corpus of Rs. 2,000 crore (USS 293.44 million) was created 
under National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) to provide 
cheaper credit to food processing industry. Excise duty on plant and machinery for 
packaging and processing has been brought down to six per cent from 10 per cent.
•  To ensure better returns to farmers, the budget of 2018-19 doubled budget allocation 
to the food processing ministry to ₹ 1,400 crore and set up institutions to finance agro­
processing projects.
Government Incentives to Food Processing Industries
An estimated investmento f ₹ 10 0,000 croresisre qu ired to achievethevis ion, ofwhic h ₹ 45,000 
croresisexpect ed t oc omefromthepr ivates ecto r,₹45 ,0 00cro r es fromfinancial institu tionsand 
₹10 ,000cro r esfro mgovernmen t.  
The government seeks to create an appropriate environment for entrepreneurs to set u p 
food processing industries through the following:
•  Fisca l initiatives  and interventions such as rationalization of tax structure on fresh foods 
as wel las processed foods and machinery used for the production of processed foods.
 •    Ac oncerte dpromotio ncampaig nt ocreatemark etforpr oces sed foodsby prov iding financial
                 
assistance toindustry associations ,NGOs /cooperatives ,private sector units ,state
             
governmentorganizationforundertakinggenericmarketpromotion.
                       
•   Harmonization andsimplification offoodlawsbyanappropriate enactment tocover all
                              
provisionsrelatingtofoodproductssothattheexistingsystemofmultiplelawsisreplaced
                     
and also covering issues concerning standards such asnutrition ,merit goods ,futures
       
marketing,equalizationfund,etc.
                               
• Efforts to expand the availability of the right kind and the quality of raw material
               
roundtheyearbyincreasingproductionandimprovingproductivity.
                      
•    Stre ngthen ing ofd atabaseandma rk etin telligence sy stemthroughstu die sandsu rveysareto 
becon duc ted  invarious s tate s toenable plan ned  inves tment  inthe approp ri ate sector
matchingwiththeavailabilityofrawmaterialandmarketabilityofprocessedproducts.
           
•     Strengthening extension services andto thefa rmers an dco-op eratives in thearea  sofp ost 
harv estmana gemen t ofag ro- producetoenc ouragethecre ation  ofpre-proc essing facilities
nearthef ar ms suc hasw ashing, f um igation ,packaging ,e tc.    
•  Efforts to encourage se tting up of agro- processing facilities  as close to the area of 
production as possible toavoid wastage  andreduce transportationcost.
•  Promotionof investments, bothforeignas well as domestic.
•  Simplification  of  documentation  and  procedures  under  taxation  laws  to  avoid 
unnecessary harassment arising out of mere technicalities.62 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
•  Establishment of cold chain, low cost pre-cooling facilities near farms, cold stores and 
grading, sorting, packing facilities to reduce wastage, improve quality and shelf life of 
products.
•  Application of biotechnology, remote sensing technology, energy saving technologies 
and technologies for environmental protection.
•  Building up a strong infrastructural base for production of value added products with 
special emphasis on food safety and quality matching international standards.
•  Development of packaging technologies for individual products, especially cut-fruits 
and vegetables, so ast o increaseth eirsh elf life a nd improveco nsumerac ceptancebo th in 
thedo mesticand  internationalma rkets.
•  Development  of  new  technologies  in  food  processing  and  packaging  and  also  to 
provide for the mechanism to facilitate quick transfer of technologies to field through 
a network of R&D institutions having a central institute at the national level with 
satellite  institutions  located  strategically  in  various  regions  to  cover  up  the  whole 
country and to make available the required testing facilities. This could be done by 
establishing a new institution or by strengthening an existing one.
•  Development of area-specific agro food parks dedicated to processing of predominant 
produce of the area e.g., apple in J&K, pineapple in North East, lichi in Bihar, mango 
in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, etc.
•  Development of anchor industrial centre and/or linkage with anchor industrial units 
having network of small processing units.
•  Development of agro-industrial multi-products units capable of processing a cluster of 
trans-seasonal produces.
•  Establishment  of  a  sustained  and  lasting  linkage  between  the  farmers  and  the 
processors based on mutual trust, understanding and benefits by utilizing the existing 
infrastructure of cooperative, village panchayats and such other institutions.
•  Mechanism to reduce the gap between the farm gate price of agro-produce and the 
final price paid by the consumer.
•  Development  of  futures  market  in  the  best  interest  of  both  the  farmers  and  the 
processors ensuring minimum price stability to the farmer and a sustained supply of 
raw material to the processor.
•  Setting up of an equalization fund to ensure sustained supply of raw material at a 
particular price level and at the same time to plough back the savings occurring in the 
eventuality of lower price to make the fund self-regenerative.
•  Establishment of a strong linkage between the processor and the market to effect cost 
economies by elimination of avoidable intermediaries.
•  Establishment of marketing network with an apex body to ensure proper marketing 
of processed products.
•  Development of marketing capabilities both with regard to infrastructure and quality 
in order to promote competitive capabilities to face not only the WTO challenge but 
also to undertake exports in a great way.AGRICULTURE SECTOR 63
Given the trends in the Indian food and beverage sector including key industry consideration, 
it is imperative for the Indian industry to leverage the emerging opportunities through the 
following:
•  Exploitation of the huge untapped potential in processed foods.
•  Opportunities demonstrated by contract farming, captive supplies of raw materials, 
disintermediation and direct access to farmers, availability of new and improved seeds 
and farm technology.
•  Value addition to unprocessed categories of food such as dairy, fruits and vegetable, 
staples and edible oils.
•  Exploitation of increasing health and safety awareness of the Indian consumer—this 
would pave the way for value added products on a health platform.
•  Investment in supply chain in order to improve costs, tighten supplies and minimize 
wastage.
•  Investment in better packaging and cold chain infrastructure will aid the processed 
food and beverage sector as these would aid in processing of fruits and vegetables.
•  Exploration of appropriate regional branding strategies in order to appeal to the deep 
rooted traditions, values and customs of the consumer.
•  Taking advantage of the inherent ethnic tastes and food habits of the Indian consumer— 
this provides the local food players a distinct advantage over foreign entrants into the 
sector and poses an entry barrier for the latter.
•  Exploitation of the increasing consumerism fuelled by new job opportunities, larger 
disposable incomes and the emerging boom in modern retail trade.
•  Opportunities  for  growth  through  the  inorganic  route,  both  domestically  and 
outbound this would provide access to new product categories, brands, markets and 
new technologies.
•  The SEZ/AEZ opportunity would also provide players an added incentive to develop 
green field projects within these zones and enjoy additional fiscal benefits.
•  The Indian foods and beverage industry is poised for a significant leap forward—these 
are interesting  times and  continued success will depend on a proper understanding 
of  the  landscape  and  challenges  therein,  quickly  exploiting  emerging  opportunities, 
skillful  execution  of  strategic  mergers  and  acquisitions  and  effecting  a  seamless 
organization to evolve into truly global players.
Mega Food Park Scheme
Highest  priority  has  been  accorded  by  the  government  for  the  development  of 
infrastructure. The government has already taken several initiatives on this front which 
include  developing  of  food  parks,  packaging  centres,  modernized  abattoirs,  integrated 
cold chain facilities, irradiation facilities and value added centres.
The initiative to develop food parks was taken primarily in order to assist the small 
and medium enterprises which are unable to invest in capital intensive activities. So far, 
twenty-two food parks have come into operation which provide common facilities such as 
cold storage, food testing and analysis labs.64 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The primary objective of the MFPS is to provide adequate/excellent infrastructure facilities 
for food processing along the value chain from the farm to market. It will include creation 
of infrastructure near the farm, transportation, logistics and centralized processing centres.
The main feature of the scheme is a cluster-based approach. The scheme will be demand- 
driven; pre-marketed and would facilitate food processing units to meet environmental, 
safety  and  social  standards.  The  expected  outcome  results  in  increased  realization  for 
farmers,  creation  of  high  quality  rural  processing  infrastructure,  reduction  in  wastage, 
capacity building of the producers and processors and creation of an efficient supply chain 
along with significant direct and indirect employment generation.
The scheme aims to facilitate the establishment of a strong food processing industry 
backed  by  an  efficient  supply  chain,  which  would  include  collection  centres,  primary 
processing  centres  and  cold  chain  infrastructure.  The  food  processing  units,  under  the 
scheme, would be located at a central processing centre (CPC) with requirements based 
on  common  infrastructure  which  are  required  for  processing, packaging,  environmental 
protection systems, quality control labs, trade facilitation centres, etc.
Urgency of Such Initiatives—Reasons
As mentioned earlier, it is because of the growing market largely because of increased 
income  of  people,  rapid  urbanization,  changing  demographics,  movement  away  from 
joint families to nuclear families and increasing number of working women. The changing 
pace of life has marked a preference for processed food.
These  have  resulted  in  shift  in  consumption  driven  by  the  processed  food  market, 
which is increasing and presently accounts for 32 per cent of the total food market and is 
likely to grow further only. The food processing industry is growing and has become one 
of the largest industries in India—it is ranked fifth in terms of production, consumption, 
export and expected growth.
Consumption patterns in India have been undergoing a visible shift. Earlier, the share 
of cereal products was the highest, followed by milk and milk products, vegetables, edible 
oil and meat products. However, in recent years, the growth rates for fruits, vegetables, 
meat and dairy products have been higher than cereals and pulses. This shift in turn implies 
that there is also a need to diversify the food production base to match the changing 
consumption preferences.
This shift in consumption follows the pattern observed in developed countries in the 
evolution of the global food demand. There is a shift from carbohydrate staples to animal 
sources and sugar. On following this pattern, in future, there will be increasing demand 
for prepared meals, snack foods and convenience foods and further on the demand would 
shift towards functional, organic and diet foods. These are post-liberalization trends that 
have given an impetus to the sector.
Some Structural Issues
Farmers have a limited market for their agricultural produce, which are confined to the 
local ‘Mandis’, and are governed by APMC under the respective state government; and the AGRICULTURE SECTOR 65
farmers can only sell to them. They cannot sell directly to the private parties for further 
processing. As a result, they are denied better prices and also prevent food processing. They 
also have limited information about the market(s), prevailing prices and operate within 
their limited knowledge, based on their own wisdom.
The supply chain of agricultural produce from the farmer to the ultimate consumer 
lacks  transparency  and  passes  through  a  number  of  middlemen  raising  cost  through 
commission charges, resulting in higher prices without any value addition. Further, the 
absence  of  storage/warehousing  facilities  and  an  inefficient  transport  system  results  in 
wastage, which only add up to higher prices.
There is virtual no use made of even the available technology let alone leveraging 
technology in the entire supply chain. There is no quality control and testing mechanism 
for  agricultural  produce  which  reaches  the  consumer.  The  extent  of  use  of  fertilizers, 
hygiene aspects and whether they are safe for human consumption is not seen as anyone’s 
responsibility.
Remedial Measures
The government has taken the first step, by allowing the FDI in multi-brand retailing. 
Despite the opposition by various vested groups, it is a step in the right direction (which 
are dealt at length in the section on foreign investment). This will address most of the 
structural issues, especially back end activities. This will lead to an organized development 
of  the  supply  chain  bring  in  transparency  and  the  investment  in  development  of  cold 
chains and warehousing facilities. It will also lead to a technology infusion and a boost 
to the food processing industry. This will also ensure a larger participation of the private 
sector in the entire chain.
However, this step will require a critical enabler, that of, amending to the respective 
APMC act of the respective state governments. This amendment will allow farmers to sell 
directly to those interested in food processing, which allow private sector to set up back 
yards for picking up produce from the farmers. It will also open up the supply chain.
It is for this reason the central government has permitted the FDI subject to consent 
of state governments.
In recent times, there has been a biotechnology revolution and now is the time for ‘food 
revolution’ around food processing industry and this is the reason why this industry is 
known as a ‘sunrise industry in view of its potentiality. India besides meeting its own food 
needs in terms of quality, diversified and value added products is also capable of expanding 
to global markets. The food market can never have a down turn like other markets as it 
is driven as a basic necessity and the demand will always be there for the same. The real 
challenge will be from the supply side or the ability to feed this growing market.
The food processing industry in India has only become to evolve and has the capability 
of becoming the fastest growing sector in the future, with tremendous opportunity and 
potential, but also at the same time a challenge in overcoming the structural issues,66 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
improvements  in  supply  chain  and  transforming  from  an  informal  to  a  formal  sector 
business activity.
AGRICULTURE POLICY: VISION 2020
Impressive strides attained by India in the agricultural front during the last three decades 
could be attributed to the several million small farming families that form the backbone of 
Indian agriculture and economy. Policy support, production strategies, public investment 
in infrastructure, research and extension for crop, livestock and fisheries have significantly 
helped to increase food production and its availability.
Despite  the  impressive  growth  and  development,  India  is  still  home  to  the  largest 
number of poor people of the world. India has high population pressure on land and other 
resources to meet its food and development needs. Due to this, natural resource, water and 
bio-diversity are under severe pressure.
Due to the increase in population and income growth, demand for extra food grains 
also increases. Besides this, significant increase in demand is happening in the supply of 
livestock, fish and horticultural products as well.
So, future increases in the production of cereals and non-cereal agricultural commodities 
will have to be essentially achieved through increases in productivity, as the possibilities of 
expansion of area and livestock population are minimal. To meet the projected demand in 
the year 2020, country must double per hectare yield of various crops.
Emerging Trends
The agriculture sector recorded satisfactory growth recently due to improved technology, 
irrigation,  inputs  and  pricing  policies.  Livestock,  poultry,  fisheries  and  horticulture  are 
surging ahead in production growth in recent years. Industrial and service sectors have 
expanded  faster  than  agriculture  sector  resulting  in  declining  share  of  agriculture  in 
national accounts.
Despite all these structural changes, agriculture still remains a key sector by providing 
both employment and livelihood opportunities to more than 70 percent of the country’s 
population. The contribution of small farmers to the national and household food security 
has been steadily increasing. The water availability for agricultural uses has reached a 
critical level and deserves urgent policy attention.
India is having high population pressure on land and other resources to meet its food 
and developmental needs. The natural resource base of land, water and bio-diversity is 
under severe and continuous pressure. Food demand challenges ahead are formidable and 
there are serious gaps in yield potential and technology transfer. Due to this the national 
average yields of most of the commodities are low.
Concentration was on enhanced production of a few commodities like rice and wheat, 
which could quickly contribute to increased total food and agricultural production. This 
resulted in considerable depletion of natural resources and the rainfed dry areas having AGRICULTURE SECTOR 67
maximum concentration of resourcep oorf armersre mained ignored,ag gravating problemsof 
in eq uity and regionalimba lances.This  also  led to ahigh c oncentration ofmalnou rished people
                     
in theserainfed,lowproductiveareas.Thiseraalso witnessed rapid lossofsoilnutrients,agro-
     
biodiversity including indigenousland racesand breeds.
             
So, the agriculture policy  must accelerate all-round  development and  economic
               
viability of agriculture in comprehensive terms. Farmers must be provided the necessary 
                 
support, encouragement and incentives. It must focus both on income and greater on-
   
farmand off-farmjob and livelihood opportunities.
   
MajorIssuesConcerning Agriculture
             
The following issues for sustainable agricultural development and poverty alleviation must
   
beconsidered through appropriatepolicy intervention
       
• Pressureofpopulation and demographictransition
         
• Degradation ofresourcebaseand waterscarcity
•  Investment in agriculture and impact on the poor
•  Implication of globalization on the poor
•  Science and technology and support to research
•  Rapid urbanization
•  Urbanization of poverty
•  Deceleration in rural poverty reduction
In addressing the above issues, a policy statement on agriculture must take note of 
the following opportunities:
•  Conservation of natural resources and protection of environment
•  Untapped potential of soil and water resources, and farming systems
•  Technology revolution especially in the areas of molecular biology, biotechnology; 
space technology, ecology and management
•  Revolution in informatics and communication and the opportunity of linking farmers, 
extension workers and scientists with the national and international databases
Vision
The policy initiative towards the Agricultural sector must articulate a clear . vision on 
following few basic parameters
•  Organization of agriculture
•  Sustainability and natural resource management
•  Institutional change
•  Investment priorities
•  Incentives
•  Risk management68 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Challenges before the Agricultural sector
Enhancing Yield of Major Crops
Integrated nutrient management
Preventing deceleration in total factor productivity
Bridging Yield Gaps
Water for Sustainable Food Security
Emphasis on Rain fed Ecosystem
Diversification of Agriculture and Value Addition
Post-Harvest Management, Value Addition and Cost-Effectiveness
Increased Investment in Agriculture and Infrastructures
Fighting Poverty and Hunger
Empowerment of Small Farmers
Disaster Management
Challenges posed by Globalization
Harnessing potential of Information Technology.
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 CHAPTER7
LAND REFORMS—
ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE
7.1. LANDR EFORMS—ASPECTS
Contemporary land reforms in India addressed aspects such as abolition of the ‘Zamindari’ 
system, land ceiling act, reforms in tenancy, rights of tenants, redistribution of surplus 
land  and  land  consolidation.  These  have  been  a  focus  area  right  since  Independence, 
largely within the  state government domain. They continue to be a priority area with 
prevalence of a large number of small and marginal farmers and also a large number of 
landless farmers.
The objective of this chapter is to bring out a new perspective, which has become 
extremely relevant and also would require to be addressed on an equal important priority, 
in tandem with the requirements of the economy.
The total area covered under agriculture is around 60 per cent of the land area of 
India. Various articles mention a declining trend of area under agriculture, as a disturbing 
trend. The forest cover of India is around 20 per cent, unreported around 5 per cent and 
the  remaining  13  per  cent  as  mountains,  rivers  and  also  for  non-agricultural  purposes 
including  industries.  Thus,  a  total  land  area  for  industrial/service  sector/infrastructure 
activities is only 11 per cent.
How much of GDP is accounted by various sectors of the economy in relation to the 
land use? Agriculture consumes up to 60 per cent of the land area whereas, contributes 
only 17 per cent of GDP, while industrial/service sector contribute over 80 per cent of 
GDP but has only 11 per cent of the land area. Growth in future will require large land 
area  under  non-agriculture  for  industries,  service  sector  activities  and  also  for  building 
infrastructure.
Thisisnottoundermine theimportance ofagricultural sector inIndia.The improvingthe
ag ricultu ra lpr o du c tivity,rath er t hanthearea u n derag ricult u re. Thi ss e ctoris imp ortantfo rfood 
securi ty  andalsofo rme eting therequi reme nts o fag rowing p opu lation,howev er, at thesame 
timeitcann otbecome ad rive rofgro wth. Th ishasto bedrive na round aw idenedan ddiv ersif ied 
ma nufactu ring an d industrial base ,whichwil lrequirefreeing  up oflandund eragr icultur e.At 
leastthe reshou ldb ep olitic alacce ptabilityoft his fact.             
 LAND REFORMS— ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE 71
7.2 LAND ACQUISITION ACT
The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation 
and  Resettlement  Act,  2013  (also  Land  Acquisition  Act,  2013)  is  an  Act  of  Indian 
Parliament  that  regulates  land  acquisition  and  lays  down  the  procedure  and  rules  for 
granting compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement to the affected persons in India. 
The Act has provisions to provide fair compensation to those whose land is taken away, 
brings transparency to the process of acquisition of land co set up factories or buildings, 
infrastructural projects and assures rehabilitation of those affected. The Act establishes 
regulations for land acquisition as a part of India’s massive industrialisation drive driven 
by public-private partnership. The Act replaced the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, a nearly 
120-year-old law enacted during British rule.
The Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Bill, 2011 was introduced in 
Lok Sabha on 7 September 2011. The bill was then passed by it on 29 August 2013 and 
by Rajya Sabha on 4 September 2013. The bill then received the assent of the President of 
India, Pranab Mukherjee on 27 September 2013. The Act came into force from 1 January 
2014.
The aims and objectives of the Act include:
•  To ensure, in consultation with institutions of local self-government and Gram Sabhas 
established  under  the  Constitution  of  India,  a  humane,  participative,  informed  and 
transparent process for land acquisition for industrialisation, development of essential 
infrastructural facilities and urbanisation with the least disturbance to the owners of 
the land and other affected families
•  Provide  just  and  fair  compensation  to  the  affected  families  whose  land  has  been 
acquired or proposed to be acquired or are affected by such acquisition
•  Make  adequate  provisions  for  such  affected  persons  for  their  rehabilitation  and 
resettlement
•  Ensure  that  the  cumulative  outcome  of  compulsory  acquisition  should  be  that 
affected persons become partners in development leading to an improvement in their 
post acquisition social and economic status and for matters connected therewith or 
incidental thereto.
7.3 NATIONAL LAND USE POLICY—EFFICIENCY IN
THE USE OF LAND
Land is a scarce resource for the country and every effort should be made to have ‘land 
efficiency’ either in agriculture or in any other activity. It should be appropriate to have 
at central government level a ‘National Land Use Policy, and within the broad umbrella, 
state government could have their respective land use policies. This would result in better 
utilization  of  land,  depending  on  the  priorities  of  government  and  a  balance  between 
compering usages of land based on efficiency and productivity. Their importance also lies 
in the fact that this policy should then become the base of land acquisition policy and 
nor on the other way around, of first acquiring the land and then talk about land use 
policy.72 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
7.4 LEASING OF AGRICULTURAL LAND
At present,l easing outof lan d isonl y fornon- agricukuralland  and agriculturalland ca n only be
used for self-cult ivation orcould b esold but present l awsdo  notal low lea sing o f land and  
giving outagricultura lland on ren t.Farmerswho  cannotu ndertakefarm ing on the irentireland 
 
area, orthos ewho are not intere sted can r ent outtheirland to thos ew ho are  interested or those
wh o do nothave land.I hiscould hel p incr easing  both  production aswellasproductivity and 
als o lea d a way to makeagriculture,aco mmercial ventu rewhich pre se ntly isby an d largea 
livelihood activity .    
         
Widespread  prohibition  ofland leasing,prevents healthy rural-urban migration ,as
                   
villagersareunableto leasetheirland,and often haveto leaveland untilled orleaveafamily 
           
member behind to work on land.Lifting theserestrictions can help landless,acquire land 
                 
fromthosewho migrate,even whileitwillallow,landownerswith education and skillsto move
     
to industry orservices.
               
Compulsory registration ofleaseholds and oftheownerstitlewould providetenantsand 
                     
landowners aprotection.Ofcourse,forsuch aleasing marketto takeoff,ownersshould be
             
confident thatlong-termtenancy would notlead to theirlosing ownership.With avibrant
                       
leasing marker,and aclear title,there should bealittle reason fornotstrengthening  their
 
ownership rights.
             
This lease hold  mechanism can also be considered  for large projects and also 
           
infrastructure,which would obviatetheneed for‘land acquisition’,and by passmany issues
                 
such ascost,compensation to bepaid,resettlement and othersuch issues.Itwillalso keep 
                 
capitalcostsdown oflargeprojectsand makeland availablequickly forprojects.
7.5 MOVINGFROMPRESUMPTIVETOCONCLUSIVETITLE
         
EconomicSurvey 2012-2013,mentions‘TheNationalLand RecordsModernization Pro­gram’
           
(NLRMP)which started during 2008 aimed atupdating and digitizing land recordsby theend 
       
oftheTwelfth Plan.Eventually,theintentisto movefrom‘presumptivetitle’,whereregistration 
                       
ofatitledoes notimply theowners titleislegally valid,to ‘conclusive title’,where itdoes.
                       
Digitization  willhelp in lowering thecosts ofland transactions ,while conclusive titlewill
                   
eliminate legaluncertainty and therequirement to usethe government asan intermediary for
                   
acquiring land so asto‘ cleanse’thetitle.
         
Thisisatime-consuming activity requiring activeengagementofthestategovernmentsand 
                 
leveraging technology and would need to becompleted in atime-bound manner.Once
     
completed ,itwould bring in transparency  in land dealings ,allow forfair pricing and 
             
developmentofan organized market.
   
7.6COMPUTERIZATIONOFLANDRECORDS
     
Majority oftheissuesencountered by thepeoplein exercising controloverland,isbecauseof,
complex lan d re cord sy stemand itsoverwh elming  controlby ‘lower’lev elbu reauc rac y.There 
isa need to makeland records a ccessibl e and understood by t hecommon  man  living in the 
village s.           
 LAND REFORMS— ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE 73
It is unfortunate that the system of land administration and management, despite its 
long history in India, has remained neglected in most parts of the country particularly 
after development agenda became the major focus of the government and administration 
in the recent few decades. The regular survey and the settlement operations started after 
the  independence  were  abandoned,  under  a  mistaken  notion,  that  this  whole  exercise 
aimed at periodical revision of the land revenue, which had no place in a democratic 
polity, particularly because there were other major sources of revenue.
It was little realized, that proper and scientifically updated land records, are not only 
critical for agricultural development, but also are the backbone of developmental effort. 
Manual updating and physical verification of land records before their computerization 
is a must. There should be a National Authority for Computerization of Land Records 
(NACLR) at the Government of India level. In most states, the work is being handled by 
the Directorate of Land Records and Surveys  who aren ota ble to  cope up  with thetas k on 
accountoft heir mult iplerespo nsibilitiesand th isacquire slowprio rity. Thereist husan eed  that 
a tthestatele ve l,th eresh ould b eaded icated inst itu tion in theformoftheStateA  utho rity  for 
Comp uterization of Land Records(SACL R)similarto th eNACLRt o exclus ively d ealwith  the
computerization  ofland re cords.Both should  work in tandem  and complete theprocessin a 
time-bound p erio d.    
Such digital land records would be useful in creating a national portal of land records 
and furthering land reforms being attempted since Independence.
7.7 BEYOND LAND AND LAND RIGHTS
There are few more contentious and complex issues in India today than those dealing with 
land and land rights. Rather than focusing on land as an issue in isolation, a continuum 
of rights has to be established regarding land, especially in the areas of access and reform, 
law  and  enforcement,  use  planning  and  management,  administration  and  information 
and other cross-cutting issues.
The  new  and  existing  initiatives  on  land  should  be  guided  by  the  core  values  of 
pro-poor,  conflict  resolution,  democratic  governance,  equity,  justice,  as  well  as  gender 
sensitivity. Although land policy development is taking place, it generally lacks a human 
rights framework. Land is not simply a resource for one human right. While some rights 
have been recently established in the legal framework (such as work, education, food), 
they can all be adversely affected by access—or lack of access—to land, and the legal 
implications of it for a broad range of human rights is obvious.
Resolving land issues and land reforms largely fall in domain of the state governments, 
as a result, progress and priority accorded to this sensitive issue has not been uniform across 
different states. It has not got the desired attention because of‘vested’ interest group, nexus 
between ‘land mafias’ and political parties. There is a need to rise above them, impart a 
decisive thrust and a resolve, of implementing land reforms, in the national interests and 
also for the benefit of a large cross section of people, the land less and the poor.
7.8 HURDLES IN LAND REFORMS IN INDIA.
The efforts towards land reform are tardy and slow in India. Following reasons can be 
attributed for poor progress of land reforms.74 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
1. Absence of Reliable Records: The absence of reliable and updated land records is 
the biggest hurdle for the slow progress of land reforms. The reporting system is weak 
and irregular and there has been no systematic programme review. Therefore, it is not 
possible to identify obstacles in the way of implementation of land reform.
2. Inadequate  Financial  Support:  Lack  of  financial  support  is  yet  another  obstacle 
in the way of land reforms. There is a lack of adequate budget allocation for the 
purpose of land reforms. This is largely responsible for the poor results of land reform
measures.
3. Absence  of  Integrated  Approach:  Land  reform  programmes  has  been  viewed  in 
isolation from the mainstream of economic development of the country. The lack of 
integrated approach towards the abolition of intermediary tenures, tenancy reforms 
and ceiling of holdings etc. lack proper coordination. This contributes for the failure 
of land reforms efforts.
4. Improper  Implementation:  The  responsibilities  for  the  implementation  of  land 
reforms are vested with the revenue administration in the states. Since high priority 
is allotted for the maintenance of public order, collection of land revenue and other 
regulatory functions, land reforms get least attention.
5. Legal Challenges: Legal problems also pose a hurdle in the way of implementation 
of land reforms in the country. Loopholes in the laws and prolonged litigation derail 
the process of land reforms. The laws related to land reforms are defective in many
ways.
6. Lack of awareness and pressure from Below: A Task Force of Planning Commission 
had once observed that, “except in few scattered and localized pockets, practically 
all  over  the  country  the  poor  peasants  and  agricultural  workers  are  passive,  un­
organized and non co-operative.” The beneficiaries of land reforms do not constitute 
an identifiable social or economic group. As a result, there has been no pressure from 
below for its effective implementation.
7. Lack of Political Will: There is a lack of political will in the enactment of progressive 
measures  and  their  efficient  implementation.  Such  strong  measures  require  strong 
political decisions and effective political support, direction and control. But, political 
will is not forthcoming due to the existence of democratic political power structure 
of the country.
8.   Indifferent Attitudeof the Admi nistration:Thewh oleres ponsibil ity oftheimplement ation  
ofland reforms res ts with there venue  departm ent ofth estates.But ,th eat titude o fthe 
adm inistrati ve staf fisquite indiff erent an d thei rbehavior  iscold.Al ong with  th is,the 
villagefunctiona ries arelarg ely underthe infl uenceoflandl ords .    
             
     CHAPTER8
SALIENT FEATURES— 
‘NEW INDIA’
NEW INDIA
In  the  recent  past,  there  has  been  a  rapid  transformation  in  the  Indian  Economy  and 
certain new features have emerged, old perceptions and outlook of the Indian Economy 
has  changed  yielding  a  different  perspective  of  India  known  as  New  India  and  are 
characterized by the following features:
•  India for a long period was believed to be a third world developing country and the 
first feature is the change in the status from developing, third world country to that of 
an emerging economy’, which is an economy with a great potential for accelerating 
growth  that  offers  investment  opportunities.  Its  huge  population  is  not  seen  as  a 
liability, but is seen as source of demand and establishes India as the second largest 
potential market in the world after China.
•  Various  international  reports  talk  of  the  future  decades  belonging  to  the  BRICS 
economies comprising of Brazil, Russia, India China and South Africa. More recently, 
Indonesia, South Korea, Vietnam and Taiwan have also been provided the same status 
and could witness a gradual shift in the global economy.
•  Secondly, change in the status from a third world economy to a potential economy’ 
and is significant as it questions the supremacy today of the first world countries. 
It also implies larger say in global matters, sharing at global platforms and global 
recognition of the New India.
•  India is widely believed to become a ‘knowledge economy’ as it already has millions of 
knowledge hubs and with the government having set up the Knowledge Commission 
of India for developing strategies for global knowledge to reside in the country.
•  India is being projected as a ‘young economy’ with over 50 per cent of its population 
under 25 years of age or 70 per cent of the population under 35 years, a feature which 
makes India unique  or the  only country  in the world .This  is in contrast to the global 
     
phenomenon of ageing work force,increased longevity leading to largeproportion of
     
non-working  to working  population  globally  and increased  investment in social
               
security  for the ageing  population .India can also reap the benefits offavourable
           
demographic dividends through extensive and intensive education and stress on skill
development.SALIENT FEATURES—‘NEW INDIA’ 77
•  India is being now referred to as a ‘market economy’ where economic decisions of 
production  and  pricing  are  largely  through  market  forces  of  demand  and  supply, 
rather than the government.
At  present,  pricing  of  food  grains  (minimum  support  price),  retail  petro  goods 
such as LPG, kerosene and diesel (administered price mechanism), fertilizers (group 
retention price scheme) and utilities are regulated by government and pricing of the 
remaining products are market determined. Prices determined through the market are 
said to be efficient’.
The aforementioned are some of the  emerging features of lndia known as the ‘New India’. Two 
aspects need to be remembered in mind. First, the global perceptions having changed about 
India gives a new perspective. Secondly, they reflect the ‘advantages ’for India but still need 
       
harnessing through education and skillformation to be converted asopportunities,otherwise,
                 
India from aposition ofstrength in these advantages can betaken over by other emerging 
economies.
                       
However, then in our zeal and enthusiasm we should not forget that there is also a Real
               
Indiawhich onehasreferred to in theearliersections,too which can glossNewIndia.
                   
Itmay beusefulto justrevisittheRealIndiaofhaving thefollowing features:
         
• Large population residing in 6 lakh odd villages in the country completely oblivious
                 
of the New India, under abject absolute poverty, undernourished  and  living  under
 
pitiableconditions.
       
• Traditional,subsistenceand stagnating agriculturesector.
           
• Lack ofemploymentopportunitiesin theeconomy with large-scaleunemployment.
                         
• A large proportion of the workforce of over 90 per cent engaged in the informal sector
   
in casualwork forlivelihood.
                     
• While sectoral composition of GDP has altered towards service sector but economic
         
dependencecontinuesto beon theagriculturesector.
                         
• The increased growth of recent times as well as benefits of reforms of not having 
         
touched themoran exclusiveratherthan inclusivegrowth.
                         
• Completely oblivious of the fact that there is an international perspective of a New
India.
                         
The most notable aspect of the Real India is die large number of population  which 
                   
continues to live below absolute poverty levels and that India continues to be home to 
                             
the largest number of poor people in the world. While we can draw comfort of the ‘New
                         
Indiaweshould notforgetthe‘RealIndia’which iswherethesoulofthecountry resides.The
                     
biggestchallengeforthegovernmentand theeconomy isto integrateRealwith NewIndia.
NEWPHILOSOPHIES
 
The transpose of Indian  economy  strengthened  up  with  introduction  of the
         
following strategicreformsthrough policy framework since2014 asgovernmentinitiatives:
         78 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
 
   
  
 
 
     
The various government initiatives contributing to creation of New India through New 
Philosophies  leading  to  transparent  governance  and  marching  towards  the  pinnacle  of 
economic growth has been highlighted as follows:
Skill India
Skill India is a campaign launched by hon’ble Prime Minister of India on 15th July 2015 
with an objective of training over 40 crore people in the country under different skills by 
2022. Thus, the PM looks forward to imbibe skill(s) as desired by a person. This is done 
by organising vocational training and / or courses which are vocational like ITI to uplift 
entrepreneurial spirit in the people by acquiring these skills.
The various initiatives undertaken:
• National Skill Development Mission
• National Policy for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, 2015 
• Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Viaks Yoina (PMKVY)
•  Rural India Skill
•  Skill Loan schemeSALIENT FEATURES—‘NEW INDIA’ 79
 
 
 
     
   
 
     
     
249 Training Partners, 3,222 Training Centers, 55,70,476 People
Trained, 23,88,009 People Placed.
Startup India
An  action  plan  aimed  at  promoting  bank  financing  for  start-up  ventures  to  boost 
entrepreneurship  and  encourage  start  ups  with  jobs  creation.  The  campaign  was  first 
announced by PrimeM  inisterN arendraM odiin  his15 A ugust,2015  addressfromth e Red  
For t.
Stand up India
This  scheme  aims  at  promoting  entrepreneurship  among  women  and  scheduled 
castes  and  tribes.  The  scheme  is  anchored  by  Ministry  of  Finance.  The  Stand-Up 
                   
IndiaSchemefacilitatesbank loansbetween ₹10 lakh and ₹1 Croreto atleastoneScheduled 
                 
Caste (SC)orScheduled  Tribe (ST)borrower and atleast onewoman borrower perbank 
       
branch forsetting up agreenfield enterprise.80 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Digital India
An initiative of the Government of India to ensure that government services are made 
available to citizens electronically by improving online infrastructure and by increasing 
internet connectivity. It was launched on 1 July 2015 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. 
The bird eye view of various aspects of Digital India program is highlighted with the 
aid of following pictorial presentation.
 
   
         
Digital Infrastructure as a  Governance & Services on Digital Empowerment of 
Utility to Every Citizen Demand Citizens
Availability o fhig hspee dinterne t Seamlessly integrated services  Universal digital literacy 
as a core ut*ty for delivery of  across departments or 
universally accessible digital 
services to citizens jurisdictions
resources
Cradte to grave digital identity that  Availability  o fservices in rea l  
iasu uthneiqnutiec aIitfee  ttoo negv,e oryn lciniteiz eann d  tpimlaet fo frromms o  nli ne&m ottle    Asevraviilcaebsil itmy  Ionfd idaing iltaanlg rueasgoeusrces / 
Mobile p hone &  Dank accou nt   Allcitizen  en titlements  to De  Cpaorltlaicbipoarateti vgeo vedrigniatanlc eplatforms tor 
enabling citizen participation portableandavailableonthe
tndigit al &financi alspace cloud     » Citizens not required to physically 
Easy access to a Common Service  Digitally tr ansfo rm edser vices for scuebrtmificita Gteosvt documents / 
Centre improvin geaseo fdoingbusiness 
» Shareable private space on a  Makingfinan cialtransactions 
put»c cloud electronic & cashless    
             
»Safeandsecurecyber-space LeveragingGeospatialinformation
Systems  (GiS)tord ecision
supportsystems &development
The  diagram  represents  the  key  components  that  constitutes  the  core  of  Digital  India 
Programme
The 9 Components of Digital India Programme
   
 
 
 
 
 SALIENT FEATURES—‘NEW INDIA’ 83
So it seems important to focus on the “mother and child,” involving maternal health 
and early life interventions. With increased devolution of resources, states will need to 
expand their capacity and improve the efficiency of service delivery by shifting their 
focus  from  outlays  to  outcomes,  and  to  learn  by  monitoring,  innovating,  and  even 
erring.
Improving service delivery in the wake of the Fourteenth Finance Commission requires 
an evolution in the relative roles of the Centre and the states:
♦ Centre should focus on improving policies, strengthening regulatory institutions, 
and facilitating cooperative and competitive federalism.
♦  States  should  mobilize  around  implementing  programs  and  schemes  to  ensure 
better service delivery.
3.  The dynamic sectors such as services and manufacturing tend to grab public attention, 
India cannot afford to neglect its agriculture. After all, nearly 42 per cent of Indian 
households derive the bulk of their income from farming. Despite the many challenges, 
there remains considerable room for optimism.
States that perform well arc increasingly becoming “models and magnets.” They are 
magnets because they attract resources, talent and technology away from the lagging 
states, forcing change via the channel of “exit”, Optimism is reinforced by events of 
the last decade that have re-affirmed the dictum that good economics is good politics. 
Thus, for now but not indefinitely, the sweet spot for India is still beckoning.
EIGHT INTERESTING FACTS ABOUT INDIA
Against  the  backdrop  of  robust  macro-economic  stability,  the  Indian  Economy  was 
marked by two major domestic policy developments, the passage of the Constitutional 
amendment, paving the way for implementing the transformational Goods and Services 
Tax (GST), and the action to demonetise the two highest denomination notes.
The GST will create a common Indian market, improve tax compliance and governance, 
and boost investment and growth; it is also a bold new experiment in the governance of 
India’s  cooperative  federalism.  Demonetisation  has  had  short-term  costs  but  holds  the 
potential for longterm benefits. Follow-up actions to minimize the costs and maximise 
the benefits include: fast, demand-driven, remonetisation; further tax reforms, including 
bringing land and real estate into the GST, reducing tax rates and stamp duties; and acting 
to allay anxieties about over-zealous tax administration.
Looking further ahead, societal shifts in ideas and narratives will be needed to overcome 
three  long-standing  meta-challengcs:  inefficient  redistribution,  ambivalence  about  the 
private sector and property rights, and improving but still-challenged state capacity.  In 
the aftermath  of demonetisation  ,and at a time ofg athering  gloom  about  globalisation , 
articulating and embracing thosei deationals hiftsw illbe crit icalto e nsuring thatIndia ’ssweet 
spotis endu ri ng notevanes cent.84 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
In this challenging scenario, when India is poising to gain the momentum with GST, 
Demonetisation, and other financial reforms after the long year of policy paralysis, India, 
however, dealing with some interesting facts regarding its Economy. Here are the eight 
interesting facts about India that reflect on an economy in transition.
1. Indians on the Move
New  estimates  based  on  railway  passenger  traffic  data  reveal  annual  work-related 
migration of about 9 million people, almost double what the 2011 Census suggests.
2. Biases in Perception
China’s credit rating was upgraded from A+ to AA- in December 2010 while India’s has 
remained unchanged at BBB-. From 2009 to 2015, China’s credit-to-GDP soared from 
about 142 percent to 205 percent and its growth decelerated.
In the same period, India’s Credit-to-GDP soared from about 70 percent to 75 percent 
and its growth is well above China. This contrast with India’s indicators is striking.
3. New Evidence on Weak Targeting of Social Programs
Welfare spending in India suffers from misallocation: the districts with the most poor 
are the ones that suffer from the greatest shortfall of funds in social programs. The 
districts accounting for the poorest 40% receive 29% of the total funding.
4.  Political Democracy but Fiscal Democracy
India has 7 taxpayers for every 100 voters ranking us 13th amongst 18 of our democratic 
G-20 peers.
Taxpayers per 100 VotersSALIENT FEATURES—‘NEW INDIA’ 85
5 India's Distinctive Demographic Dividend
India’s share of working age to non-working age population will peak later and at a 
lower level than that for other countries but last longer. The peak of the growth boost 
due to the demographic dividend is fast approaching, with peninsular states peaking 
soon and the hinterland states peaking much later.
Demographic Dividend in Indian States and Other Emerging Economies
 
6 . India  Trades  More  than China  and   aLo tWithin Itself
.As of 2011, India’s openness - measured as the ratio of trade in goods and services to 
GDP has far overtaken China’s, a country famed for using trade as an engine of growth. 
India’s internal trade to GDP is also comparable to that of other large countries and 
very different from the caricature of a barrier-riddled economy.
7. Divergence within India, Big Time
Spatial dispersion in income is still rising in India in the last decade (2004-14), unlike 
the rest of the world and even China. That is, despite more porous borders within India 
than between countries internationally, the forces of “convergence” have been elusive.
8 .Property Tax Potentia lUnexploited
Evidence from satellite data indicates that Bengaluru and Jaipur collect only between 
5% to 20% of their potential property taxes.
     
         
 CHAPTER9
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND
LIBERALIZATION
ROLE OF INDUSTRY IN AN ECONOMY
Previously, we have addressed the agricultural sector and its importance to the economy. 
The industrial sector plays an equally important role as it accelerates growth of economies, 
provides  self-reliance,  employment,  creates  a  demand  for  the  agricultural  produce  and 
creates ‘ripple effect’ (similar to throwing a pebble in a pond and you can see the waves 
moving outwards).
Industries  can  create  townships  around  them  thereby  creating  indirect  employment 
(Jamshedpur, Rourkela, Bhilai are a few to mention here). Industrialization is all about 
focusing on the industries allowing them to meet the requirements of the economy besides 
providing  linkages  to  the  agricultural  sector  and  also  employment  opportunities  in  the 
economy. This can be achieved only through higher industrial growth which can provide 
momentum to overall growth and also make it sustainable in future.
There has been a missing link in India of the industrial/manufacturing sector, despite 
policies and governmental focus, not playing its role of creating linkages with agricultural 
sector and also creating desired employment opportunities. The services sector becoming 
a  major  contributor  to  output  rather  than  the  manufacturing  or  the  industrial  sector. 
Such sectoral composition in favour of services does happen but once industrial sector has 
achieved a level of maturity emerged globally competitive and the service sector supporting 
higher levels of growth of economies, which has not happened in India.
Let us understand industry a bit more closely. It implies conversion of any raw material 
into a finished good or a manufacturing activity producing wide range of goods which is 
required in the economy. Industries can also be categorized across the following features:
1.  Products—basic  industries  (steel,  cement),  capital  good  industries  (manufacturing 
of plant and machineries). Intermediate goods industries (manufacture of dyes, tools, 
etc.,) and consumer goods industries (manufacture of cars, scooters, fridges, TV, etc.,). 
The consumer goods industries are also known as ‘White Goods Industry’.
2.  Ownership—government (public sector), private and foreign (private sector), public 
and private sector (joint sector).
3.  Scale of investment in plant and machinery—large industries (investment in plant 
and machinery  o fover ₹10 crores) ,medium industries (T 1-10 crores), small-scale 
                 
industries(₹10 lakh to ₹1 crores),villageand cottageindustries(lessthan ₹10 lakh).88 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
4.  Capital/Labour  intensity—capital  intensive  industries  (larger  capital  intensive 
in relation to labour) and labour intensive industries (larger intensity of labour in 
relation to capital).
Economies desirous of pushing up rates of growth of their economy, would need industrial 
goods for development and shift focus on setting up basic and capital goods industries 
commonly known as initiation of the process of industrialization.
India started its journey of industrialization during the second five-year plan (1955/56- 
60/61). The pattern of industrialization in India is also known as the ‘Mahalanobis Model’ 
(an  Indian  scientist)  with  the  setting  up  of  basic  and  capital  goods  industries  by  the 
government directly, strongly influenced by the Russian model of state-run industries.
PUBLIC SECTOR IN INDIA
One  may  ask  why’  public  sector  was  chosen  for  industrialization.  Post-independence 
India was deeply influenced by the Soviet Union which had state-run industries and was 
an era of‘socialism’ with large role of the government in production of goods and services. 
‘Capitalism’ was associated with exploitative tendencies and having vested interest.
Immediately after Independence, the private sector was virtually non-existent in India 
and whatever existed did not have the maturity, resources, technology, etc., to shoulder 
could  get  the  responsibility  of  the  industrialization.  The  government,  at  its  own  level 
technology and other such support from other countries which may not have been possible 
otherwise.
Even if it is presumed that the task was entrusted to the then private sector, industrialization 
would have required huge resources, technology support and well-trained manpower, which 
were not available within the then private sector. Basic/capital goods industries have long 
gestation period (time between investment and commercial production), high break-even 
point (long period before profits accrue). These could be seen as natural dis-incentives for 
the private sector at that time.
Setting up public sector in India for industrialization was a conscious, well thought out 
and deliberate decision given the magnitude of responsibility and the need for moving on 
a pre-determined path of industrialization. The role of public sector in India was clearly 
cut-out and set up with the following objectives:
1.  Create significant ‘capacities’ (ability to produce) in basic and capital goods.
2.  Achieve self-reliance in core areas and also facilitate import substitution.
3. Attain commanding heights of the economy and become a driver for the industrial 
growth and a catalyst’ in accelerating overall growth of the economy.
4.. Adopt pro-labour technology to create employment opportunities.
5. Setting up industries in backward/tribal areas for their integration with the rest of the 
economy and also for better regional development.
Provide for development of the private sector.
6.
7. Set up self-contained townships covering residential, schools, hospitals, transport, etc. 
8. Public sector to have regulated prices by the government given their importance to 
the economy and not creating an upward spiral in the prices of basic goods.INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 89
Six decades since setting up of public sector, can it be said they have delivered or achieved 
the objectives?
1.Br oadly the y ha ve delivered in cre ating sig nificant  capacities’ in all c orear eas an d      
having achieved self-reliance  in all kinds of industrial goods required in the economy. 
                   
2. To day ,India can sa fely cl aim that itisnot dependent on an y co untry fo r its
             
requirementofindustrialgoodslargely dueto thepublicsector.
   
3.Th eyha veprovidedga infulemployment.
                 
4.It has alsofac ilitatedev olutionof the private sector andals obe enres ponsible for
     
thelevelsofindustrialization and industrialmaturity reached.
                 
    5  .  Th ey ca n al so be  credited fo r making th e industrial sector a driver of growth  
     
and lifting overallratesofgrowth.
                     
They havehad theirown setofissuestoo,butmany ofthemcannotbedirectly attributed 
                   
to them, issues of capacity utilization, technology-related, time and cost overruns but most
                 
importantly, many public sector enterprises are loss making. Of the two hundred twenty 
           
odd PSUonethird arelossmaking with high levelsofaccumulated losses.
                     
However, can we really blame the public sector for being loss making? Public sector
               
was set up with socio-welfare considerations provided the objectives of industrialization,
               
self-reliance, employment generation, development of backward/tribal areas. More
               
fundamentally, government ownership and profits do not go together. Profit is a function 
                     
of pure businesses and public sector by virtue of government being the owner cannot
     
function asapurebusiness.
                   
Similarly, to comment on the efficiency levels of public sector is incorrect as efficiency 
                 
levels can be envisioned amongst the comparables’. One can comment on who is more
                     
efficient amongst say, Pepsi and  Coke. However, all public sectors are operating  as
           
monopoliesin termsoftheirscaleofoperations.
                           
Whom would you compare ONGC or BHEL or SAIL with? This is true for all public
                         
sectors. It is not to say that public sector is efficient. The expression conveyed here is that
                   
it is not possible to comment on efficiency levels of public sector based on efficiency levels
     
oftheprivatesector.
                   
Further comparison  of the public sector is technically  incorrect as private sector
                       
operates as a commercial venture with an explicit profit motive unlike the public sector
                     
which also  hav e social objective s to fulfill.Publ ic se ctor h asnott o beenv isi oned  from the 
perspectiv eofprofit-making  o refficiencyle  vels butinthe largercontextoftheobjectiveswhich
areass i gnedtothem w  henth eywe r e se t up.          
Wew ould revisit publicsect ora bit latera fterdev eloping an unde rstanding oftheindustrial
policieswhich havedefined theroleofpublicsectorand also path ofindustrialization.
 
INDUSTRIALPOLICIES
                 
The role of pu blic and private sector, o verall dire ction to  ind ustr ial growth a nd th e in dus­
trialization has b een guided  by vario us  industrial policies of the gover nment that has been 
announced fro mtime-to-tim ein  viewo fchanging priorities starting f rom 1948 onwa rds.  
However, cl early the re are  some land m ark po licies  such  as th e  Ind ustrial Policy of
1956 which hasgiven thepresentcharacterofpublicsector.TheotheristheIndustrial90 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Policy of 1991 which is hailed as the usherer of economic reforms in India. It may not 
be required to go into each and every industrial policy since 1948, however, it would be 
suffice to see the salient key features of all policies pre-1991 which would facilitate a better 
understanding of the Industrial Policy of 1991 and the changes brought about in the right 
context.
Industrial Policies (pre-1991) are as follows:
(1)  The industrial sector was highly regulated, bureaucratic controls and subject to strict 
licensing system by the government with the need for a licence for any industrial 
activity, besides the need for compulsory registration before commencing the business.
(2)  The policy of 1956 brought the role of public sector sharply by reserving as many 
as eighteen areas exclusively for the public sector. In certain areas, private sector was 
allowed but subject to the requirement of licence and registration. However, public 
sector could also be set up in these areas if deemed necessary by the Government.
(3)  Thus , most  critical  and importan t areas  of  oil , power , heavy equipments ,  
telec om,e tc.,wereexclusive ly in thed omain  ofpublicsector.
(4)  Bigger  private  companies  were  highly  regulated  through  the  monopolies  and 
restrictive trade practices (MRTP) act and known as MRTP companies and similarly 
foreign  companies  were  regulated  through  the  Foreign  Exchange  Regulation  Act 
(FERA) and known as FERA companies.
(5)  It was believed by the government that as a company grows in size it can resort 
to  monopolistic  and  exploitative  tendencies.  As  a  result  even  after  a  licence  and 
commencing of business, the private sector had to seek approval from the government 
for capacity expansion, diversification and other such business decisions.
(6)  The  earlier  policies  with  a  view  to  give  public  sector  commanding  heights  and 
control over key industries/services also paved the way for nationalization or take 
over from private sector. Thus, coal mining, banking, insurance, textile mills (sick 
industries were taken over to protect employment) earlier in the private sector, were 
nationalized.
(7)  The pre-1991 policies had price regulation for industrial goods with prices of steel, 
cement and other basic goods controlled by the government.
(8)  Each and every policy had stressed on the mixed economy character of the economy 
which is co-existence of the public and private sector but in reality it was heavily 
tilted towards the public sector.
To summarize, the pre-1991 policies were highly regulated and regimented oriented, near 
dominance of the public sector and a very limited space but with bureaucratic control over 
private sector companies.
NEW ECONOMIC POLICY 1991
As mentioned previously, this policy is known to be the beginning of economic reforms in 
India. Though reforms were there before this also but they were as changes being effected 
but not seen as reforms made as explicit in the policy of 1991. It is also known as the New 
Industrial Policy or the New Economic Policy, and also known as the policy of liberalization or INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 91
end of licence/permit raj or even end of bureaucratic control over functioning of the industrial 
sector, particularly private sector.
The  policy  aimed  at  greater  freedom  for  doing  businesses  outside  the  government 
control,  reduced  the  role  for  public  sector,  de-reserving  areas  and  larger  role  for  the 
private sector, doing away with MRTP/FERA act and dispensing with MRTP and FERA 
companies.  This  lifted  all  bureaucratic  control  on  their  functioning.  Price  regulation 
paved a way to the market determined prices for most of the industrial goods. The policy 
emphasized on greater competition and level playing field for all players.
It  advocated  liberal  foreign  investment  policies  to  attract  foreign  investment  in  the 
country (more about this in upcoming sections). Broadly, the New Economic Policy or 
the Industrial Policy 1991 has three broad areas which are as follows:
1) Liberalization.
2) Public sector.
3) Foreign investment.
Liberalization
Liberalization as a policy basically dispensed with the earlier licensing and the registration 
system  providing  the  freedom  to private sector to set up  industries  without  either  the 
need for a licence or a need for registration. De-licensing was the most important aspect 
of the policy of liberalization. Two areas, atomic energy and railways would not be open 
for private sector participation. Even while doing away with the licensing system certain 
critical areas still require a licence but opened up for private sector participation which 
are as follows:
1) Any kind of fire arms and ammunition, explosives. 
2) Drugs and pharmaceuticals.
3) Coal mining.
4) Defence equipments.
5) All kinds of wines, cigarettes and spirits.
6) Hazardous chemicals.
Any environment degrading and polluting industries would not require a licence but an 
administrative clearance from the respective ministries of central/state government before 
investment. Further, as a part of liberalization there was now no restrictions on capacity 
expansion and diversification by the private companies. The policy thus allowed the private 
sector to operate as pure businesses with minimal bureaucratic control and be driven and 
expand operations largely by demands in the markets and opportunities available.
Why was this done? It is important to understand that even before reforms, despite the 
regulations, the private sector struggled, operated within the constraints of the government 
but survived and was not completely eclipsed by the public sector. The changing economic 
scenario required a different orientation focused on efficiency, productivity and profitability.
A time had come to acknowledge maturity of the private sector, their resilience, their 
fighting spirit and that they could now share and shoulder larger responsibilities. In fact, 
on the contrary, the regulations had given them the maturity of operating in a constrained 
environment.92 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
It also distinguished  a fundamental  shift in them indset o fth ego vernment of the clear 
distin ction between production and governance,and ase parater oleforbo th th epri vatesector 
aswell astheg ove rnme nt.I tals o marked the shi fting ofresponsibi lity ofincrem  entalinvestment 
and growth  to theprivat esector,leaving the governm entfre erto concent rateon addre ssing  the
largersocia lissuesoftheecono my an d better govern an ce.I twasalso an acknow ledgement of 
th eobj ective ofamixed economy. Its hou ld notbes een  a sundermining the im portance of the 
publicse ctorbutgiving du ecredibility  to t hep rivates ectorin  the economy.    
     
PublicSectorand EconomicReforms
     
It is widely perceived that the policy of 1991 has clipped the wings of the public sector by 
op en ing the areas which ar e re served ex clusively  for public s ector to  p riva te secto r. This  is
not from a n egativ e sense, bu t there would bea large r role f or the p rivate sec torin th eare as 
whi ch we re reserved  earlier for thepu blicsecto r.                 
The pol icy of 1991 re duc ed  the are as reserved for public sector from 18 to 5 and 
subsequ ently in la ter years more sect ors we re thrown op en for  private sector participation,
except for atomic en ergy, railwa ys and  those  requiring a licen ce. Fur ther, n o new public 
sector wou ld be s et up an d investm ent limited  to existing  compan ies and t hat to fr om the 
interna l accruals  or accumulated profit s of public sector. No fresh  budgetary  allocati ons 
would   be made  in   public sector exce pt  for los s-makin g  and  ‘stressed’ public sector 
companies .                
There was a requirement for greater professional character by  the public sector.
                     
Appointments to theBoard ofDirectors ofpublicsectorwould only beofprofessionals.The
                     
Chief Executives ofpublic sector weremade accountable fortheirperformance .Performing 
                     
publicsectorswereto begiven greaterautonomy in theirday-to-day operations.Firstthrough 
               
theconceptofexecution ofMemorandum ofUnderstanding ofcommitments ofperformance
                 
and operational flexibility.Latergiving statusofMaharatna,Navrattan and Mininavrattan,of
             
varying degreeoftaking investmentdecisionsto wellrun PSUs.
             
The policy has taken a complete ‘U’ turn from the previous policies, in announcing that
                   
there would be no further nationalization of the private sector unless there are compelling 
                   
exceptionalcircumstances.
 
On the contrary, the policy for the first time, talked of disinvestment and privatization 
                 
of public sector. The third element of the New Economic Policy was the reforms in foreign 
                       
investmentwhich willbediscussed in alatersection.
         
Disinvestment and Privatization
Both disinvestment as well as privatization is the reverse of investment. For setting up 
public sector, the government had to invest by subscribing in shares of the new public 
sector from budgetary resources. Thus, disinvestment and privatization both imply ‘selling 
of shares of public sector by the government’. We all know that shares are traded at the 
stock market and the traded value of each share is decided by the buyers and the sellers in 
the market.
If buyers of shares of a particular company are more than the sellers of the same, the 
traded value of the shares would be at a premium’ or otherwise it would be at a ‘discount’. 
Thus, in both the cases of disinvestment as well as privatization, selling of shares of public 
sector would be at a premium.INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 93
To distinguish between both, ownership of companies would need to be understood. 
Who is the owner of a company? He/She is a person who holds majority of the shares, 
that is, 51 per cent. Technically, ownership is with the person holding a minimum 51 
per cent shares, or even a person enjoying support of 51 per cent shareholders. This can 
be explained as: If you are holding 10 per cent shares of a company and you are able to 
convince 41 per cent shareholders to support, then you will become the owner of the 
company (similar as governments are formed). Hence, disinvestment is defined as selling 
of shares of public sector at a premium, to the public, by the government without losing 
ownership of the public sector. The objective here is to raise resources for the government. 
These shares are  sold to the public as the  preferred and first option of making them 
partners in public sector.
We have talked about ownership earlier. At a still deeper level ownership of businesses 
being done, as companies having shares, is always with shareholders and management is 
with the person having support of 51% of the shareholders. Privatization is transferring 
management control to the private sector by selling 51 per cent shares of public sector 
to the private sector or even lesser but transferring management control to a group or 
to a company. The objective is not so much to raise resources in as much as transferring 
management  control  from  the  government  to  the  private  company.  It  is  not  a  logical 
extension  of  disinvestment.  That  is,  having  disinvested  in  a  public  sector  does  not 
necessarily imply that it is going to be privatized.
Why did the policy of 1991 favored privatization? The policy took a mature decision 
in seeking privatization of the public sector for the following reasons:
(1)  The public sector as mentioned earlier had broadly delivered in terms of creating 
significant  capacities  in  key  areas  such  as  self-reliance,  substituting  for  import  of 
industrial  goods,  created  the  platform  for  further  industrialization  and  industrial 
growth. There is a requirement now to moving into higher gears and look at issues 
such as developing greater capabilities, improving productivity and efficiency, sharp 
focus on profitability.
(2)  The policy of liberalization has opened the gates for liberal private sector investment 
in key areas and competition would only intensify. This requires the public sector 
to now run as pure businesses, as a commercial venture which is possible solely in 
private sector. As a public sector, there will always be a limitation of not being to 
operate as a pure business in the same way as their counter pans in the private sector.
(3)  The role of the government as a producer of industrial goods is always interim, 
short-term and never permanent. It can be permanent producer only of those where 
direct welfare of people is affected like railways or in the national interest like atomic 
energy.
(4)  It is also about the mindset of the government of the maturity of the private sector 
and their ability to deliver the requirements better than the government.
(5)  As  a  government,  it  has  larger  responsibilities  of  providing  good  and  efficient 
governance,  creating  enabled  environment,  addressing  the  welfare  of  the  masses, 
which  are  far  more  important  than  running  public  sector.  Especially,  when  today 
there is a maturity and competence in the private sector.
(6)  Why privatize a profit making public sector? Privatization is not about profit making 
but for a larger reason of whether it will continue to remain profitable in future with 
intense and fierce competition.94 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(7)  Thus, privatization is not for today but for a brighter future of the public sector in a 
privatized environment equipped better to meet the challenges.
(8)  Any business requires the ability to take prompt business decisions, it is not about 
whether the decision was right or wrong. Such decisions will always have business 
risks but what is required is the ability to take the decision quickly. The structure of 
public sector globally is such that it suffers from delays in decision-making.
(9)  Privatization is also about handing public sector to a visionary’ who understands 
business, understands priorities and knows how to make the public sector grow to 
greater heights and help it to emerge as a global company.
Keeping the above facts in view the government went for some big ticket privatization 
like that of BALCO (Vedanta Group), VSNL (Tatas), IPCL (Reliance Industries), Modern 
Foods  (Unilever),  and  Maruti  (Suzuki).  Even  Round  1  of  privatization  was  performed 
amidst lot of controversy ranging from the need to issues of valuation.
Why the opposition to privatization? The reasons are detailed as follows:
(1)  It was feared that government owned monopolies would be replaced by private sector 
monopolies and could result in exploitation by the private sector. The government has 
clarified that no public sector operating as a monopoly would be privatized. Only those 
which are operating in a competitive environment would be privatized. Until they are 
able to operate in a competitive environment there would only be disinvestment of 
such public sector.
(2)  It is also feared that privatization would result in a large number of workers laid off 
or would lose their jobs thereby adding to the pool of unemployment. It needs to be 
understood that public sector being specialized in nature, the workers by virtue of 
experience have acquired a skill set which no owner would like to lose. Rather than 
retrench they would be redeployed.
(3)  It is also widely believed that proceeds received from disinvestment and privatization 
would be used to meet the budgetary deficit and not used for the benefit of the 
masses or used to create social assets in the economy.
(a)  The government has already set up the National Investment Fund (NIF) for 
parking of funds received from disinvestment.
(b)  Further, the corpus would not be used but the returns from the corpus by their 
investment in profitable avenues, would be used 75 per cent for creating social 
assets and the remaining 25 per cent in revival of loss making public sector units 
and also meeting the expansion needs of the profitable public sector units.
(c)  The corpus of the NIF would be managed by UTI mutual fund, SBI and LIC.
(4)  Given the high level of fiscal deficit it would be difficult for the government to desist 
from reducing the deficit through proceeds of disinvestment and privatization.
Despite the merit and the need for privatization the government rightfully is not considering 
any further privatization and would rather wait for consensus building amongst political 
parties, trade unions before privatization as it is a long protracted process spanning several 
decades.
Both  liberalization  as  well  as  privatization  are  the  major  planks  of  the  economic 
reforms. The government by pressing the‘ pauseb utton' on privatization isbe ing criticized as
slo wing down ofref ormsor ofh av ing gone‘sof t’.
Privatization should not be seen as the only aspect of reforms. Neither should one expect 
an end of all economic problems through privatization. A similar misplaced belief was there INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 95
when public sector was set up. Privatization at its best provide only for an efficient and 
competitive domestic industrial base and cannot be said as the ‘only’ aspect of reforms. There 
are so many other softer reforms (relatively easy to implement through an executive order of 
the government), which could have been done. Despite the policy of liberalization there are 
still bureaucratic hurdles.
In terms of World Bank survey ,on the relative ease of doing business outside government 
approval, regulatory clearances,I ndia’sr ank isal ow  ofo ne hund red and thirty-fouroutof one 
hu ndre d  and eighty-three countr ies .Singa pore isran ke d asnumb er one a mon g allother 
count ries.
Similarly, ‘Licence Raj’ has paved way to ‘Inspector Raj’. Today, as many as thirty 
different inspectors visit the factory premises under various Acts as against 2-3 in China. 
Getting  an  electricity  connection  or  a  no  objection  certificate  from  pollution  control 
board is still difficult. Collection of excise duty is cumbersome.
There is still a lot of bureaucratic interface for performing business in India and that is 
where the government needs focusing. Thus, liberalization has helped but not to that level 
by global standards. It is rightly said that what India needs is ‘thousands of smaller reforms’ 
and ‘big bang reforms’ can wait till acceptable or till a need for them is felt.
ROLE OF PUBLIC SECTOR IN FUTURE
The  NEP  1991  has  given  rise  to  certain  wrong  perceptions  about  the  public  sector, 
mentioned earlier, ‘clipping of their wings’, or ‘diluting the status of public sector’. It needs 
to be clarified first that it is not the clipping of wings but only a larger role for private 
sector. Neither is the status being diluted given the huge investments and asset base of the 
public sector in the country. The policy should not be seen as undermining the importance 
of public sector, but role of public sector would undergo a change as mentioned below:
(1)  From  a  welfare  orientation  they  would  shift  to  function  as  a  commercial  venture 
with profits as an objective to the extent feasible as a public sector.
2)  From production-oriented they would become productivity-oriented.
3)  They will operate with greater professionalism and well run public sector would 
operate with greater operational and functional autonomy to the extent feasible.
(a)  Many  more  public  sector  would  acquire  the  status  of  ‘Mini-navrattan, 
Navrattan  and  Maharatnas’,  yielding  them  a  greater  degree  of  freedom  for 
taking investment decisions by the respective boards of public sector and not 
requiring government approval.
4)  There would be consolidation and likelihood of mergers amongst public sector such 
as oil companies, nationalized banks to enable them to achieve greater economies of 
scale and help them to compete with global companies.
5)  Many public sectors may opt for overseas acquisitions paving the way for public 
sector to become global players.
6)  There is a likelihood of public sector getting into joint ventures with private sector 
and greater joint participation in key areas.
The chief executive officer of public sector would be considered for appointment 
based on merit and competence both within as well as outside the government.96 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(8)  There would be a level playing field with the private sector allowing for healthy 
competition.
(9)  Gradually, their monopoly status would get diluted with entry of private and foreign 
companies  and  they  would  not  be  at  commanding  heights’  of  the  economy  but 
operate along with private and foreign companies.
(10)  Efforts would be made to address the loss making public sector by exploring all 
avenues for their revival through capital infusion, waiving off accumulated losses 
so that they can start afresh on a clean slate. However, all such revivals of the loss 
making public sector may come with a ‘rider’, that this revival would be subject to 
privatization subsequently.
(11)  However, the biggest challenge before the profitable public sector would be their 
ability to be competitive, productive and efficient and remain profitable in future.
NATIONAL MANUFACTURING POLICY, 2011
In order to create a paradigm shift in the manufacturing sector, it is essential to consider 
the objectives over a longer timeframe, such as 15 years. The National Manufacturing 
Policy, which was introduced in 2011, states following objectives:
1.  Increase manufacturing sector growth to 12-14%o verth eme dium term  to m  akeitan  
en gineofgro wth  fortheeco nom y.The2 to  4 % differentia lovertheme dium term  growth  
rateo ftheoveralle con omy   willen ablemanufactu ring to  contribute atleast25%ofthe 
N ationa lGD Pb y 2 025.    
2.  Increase the rate of job creation in manufacturing to create 100 million additional 
jobs by 2025. Emphasis should be given to creation of appropriate skill sets among 
the rural migrant and urban poor to make growth inclusive.
3.  Increase  depth’  in  manufacturing,  with  focus  on  the  level  of  domestic  value 
addition, to address the national strategic requirements.
4.  Enhance  global  competitiveness  of  Indian  manufacturing  through  appropriate 
policy support.
5.  Ensure sustainability of growth, particularly with regard to the environment.
The Policy is based on a principle of industrial growth in partnership with the States. 
Central  Government  will  create  the  enabling  policy  framework,  provide  incentives  for 
infrastructure  development  on  a  PPP  basis  through  appropriate  financing  instruments, 
while  State  Governments  will  identify  the  suitable  land  and  be  equity  holders  in  the 
National  Investment  and  Manufacturing  Zones  (NIMZs).  The  following  are  the  key 
policy instruments for achieving the objectives:
1.  Establishment  of  NIMZs  -  Greenfield  Integrated  Industrial  Townships  with  state 
of-the-art  infrastructure  and  land  use  on  the  basis  of  zoning;  clean  and  energy 
efficient  technology  and  requisite  social  infrastructure.  NIMZ  was  proposed  with 
land area of at least 5000 hectares.INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 97
2.  Industrial  Townships  are  proposed  to  be  self-governing  and  autonomous  bodies 
under Article 243(Q-c) of the Constitution.
3.  The trunk infrastructure will be financed appropriately by the Central Government 
through  viability  gap  funding  while  SPV  will  develop  the  zone  infrastructure  in 
PPP mode.
4.  NIMZ will be managed by Special Purpose Vehicle, headed by Govt, officials and 
experts, including those of environment.
Aspects of National Manufacturing Policy
1.  Focus Sectors:
■  Employment-intensive industries like textiles and garments, leather and footwear, 
gems and jewellery and food processing industries.
■  Capital goods industries like machine tools, heavy electrical equipment, heavy 
transport, earthmoving and mining equipment.
■  Industries with strategic significance like aerospace, shipping, IT hardware and 
electronics, telecommunication equipment, defence equipment and solar energy.
■  Industries where India enjoys a competitive advantage such as automobiles, 
pharmaceuticals and medical equipments.
■  Small and medium enterprises and public sector enterprises.
2.  National Investment and Manufacturing Zones (NIMZ):
■  The National Investment and Manufacturing Zones are being conceived as giant 
industrial greenfield townships to promote world-class manufacturing activities.
■    The minimum size is 5000 hectares (50 square kilometres) wherein the processing 
area has to be at least 30%.
■    The  central  government  will  be  responsible  for  bearing  the  cost  of  master 
planning, improving/providing external physical infrastructure linkages including 
rail,  road,  ports,  airports  and  telecom,  providing  institutional  infrastructure 
for productivity, skill development and the promotion of domestic and global 
investments.
■    'Ihe  identification  of  land  will  be  undertaken  by  state  governments.  State 
governments  will  be  responsible  for  water  requirement,  power  connectivity, 
physical  infrastructure,  utility  linkages,  environmental  impact  studies  and 
bearing the cost of resettlement and rehabilitation packages for the owners of 
acquired land.
■    The state government will also play a role in its acquisition, if necessary.
■     In  government,  purchase  preferences  will  be  given  to  units  in  the  national 
investment and manufacturing zones.
■     For  financial  year  2016-17,  USD  0.515  million  has  been  earmarked  under 
the  scheme  for  implementation  of  National  Manufacturing  Policy  for  ‘Master 
planning of NIMZs and Technology acquisition and development fond.98 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
■  National Investment and Manufacturing Zones identified under DMIC:
♦  Ahmedabad-Dholera Investment region, Gujarat
♦  Shendra-Bidkin Industrial Park City near Aurangabad, Maharashtra
♦  Manesar-Bawal investment Region, Haryana
♦  Khushkhera-Bhiwadi-Neemrana Investment Region, Rajasthan
♦  Pithampur-Dhar-Mhow Investment Region, Madhya Pradesh
♦  Dadri-Noida-Ghaziabad Investment Region, Uttar Pradesh
♦  Dighi-Port Industrial Area, Maharashtra
♦  Jodhpur-Pali-Marwar region, Rajasthan
■  14 NIMZ outside the DMIC region have also been given in-principal approval.
♦  Kuhi and Umrcd Taluka of Nagpur district, Maharashtra
♦  Tumkur, Karnataka
♦  Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh
♦  Medak, Telangana
♦  Prakasam, Andhra Pradesh
♦  Gulbarga, Karnataka
♦  Kolar, Karnataka
♦  Bidar, Karnataka
♦  Kalinganagar, Jajpur District, Odisha
♦  Hyderabad Pharma NIM, Rangareddy and Mehbubnagar district of 
Telangana
♦  Ramanathapuran, Tamil Nadu
♦  Ponneri, Tamil Nadu
♦  Auraiya, Uttar Pradesh
♦  Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh
3.  Simplification of Regulatory Environments
■  Timelines will be defined for all clearances.
■  Central and State governments to provide exemptions from rules and regulations 
related to labour, environment etc. subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions.
■  Mechanisms  for  the  cooperation  of  public  or  private  institutions  with 
government inspection services under the overall control of statutory authorities 
to be developed.
■  Process of clearances by centre and state authorities to be progressively web- 
enabled.
■  A combined application form and a common register to be developed.
■  The submission of multiple returns for different departments will be replaced by 
one simplified monthly/quarterly return.INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 99
■  A single window clearance for units in NIMZ.
4.  Acquisition of Technology & Development
■  The policy intends to leverage the existing incentives/schemes of government and 
also introduce new mechanisms to introduce green technologies.
■  A  technology  acquisition  and  development  fund  has  been  proposed  for  the 
acquisition  of  appropriate  technologies,  the  creation  of  a  patent  pool  and  the 
development  of  domestic  manufacturing  of  equipment  used  for  controlling 
pollution and reducing energy consumption.
■  The fund will also function as an autonomous patent pool and licensing agency. 
It will purchase intellectual property rights from patent holders. Any company 
that wants to use intellectual property to produce or develop products can seek a 
license from the pool against payment of royalties.
Incentives under National Manufacturing Policy
1. Transfer of Assets:
■  In case a unit is declared sick, the transfer of assets will be facilitated by the 
company managing the affairs of NIMZ.
■  Relief from capital gains tax on the sale of plant and machinery of a unit located 
in NIMZ will be granted in case of the re-investment of sale consideration within 
a period of 3 years for purchase of new plant and machinery in any other unit 
located in the same or another NIMZ.
Green Technology & Practices:
■  5%  interest  in  reimbursement  and  10%  capital  subsidy  for  the  production 
of  equipment/machines/devices  for  controlling  pollution,  reducing  energy 
consumption and water conservation.
■  A grant of 25% to SMEs for expenditure incurred on audit subject to a maximum 
of USD 1538.46.
■  A 10% one-time capital subsidy for units practising zero water discharge.
■  A rebate on water cess for setting up wastewater recycling facilities.
■  Incentives for renewable energy under the existing schemes.
■  An  incentive  of  USD  3076.92  for  all  buildings  which  obtain  a  green  rating 
under  the  Indian  Green  Building  Council  (IGBC)  /  Leadership  in  Energy 
&  Environmental  Design  (LEED)  or  Green  Rating  for  Integrated  Habitat 
Assessment (GRIHA) systems.
3. Technology Development:
■  Incentives  for  the  production  of  equipment/machines/devices  for  controlling 
pollution, reducing energy consumption and water conservation.
■  SMEs  will be given  access to  the patent  pool and/or part of  reimbursement 
of  technology  acquisition  costs  up  to  a  maximum  of  USD  30,769.23  for  the 
purpose of acquiring appropriate technologies up to a maximum of 5 years.100 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Special Benefits to SMEs:
■  Rollover relief from long term capital gains tax to individuals on sale of residential 
property in case of re-investment of sale consideration.
■  A tax pass-through status for venture capital funds with a focus on SMEs in the 
manufacturing sector.
■  Liberalization of RBI norms for banks investing in venture capital funds with a 
focus on SMEs, in consultation with RBI.
■  The liberalization of IRDA guidelines to provide for investments by insurance 
companies.
■  The inclusion of lending to SMEs in manufacturing as part of priority sector 
lending.
■  Easier access to bank finance through appropriate bank lending norms.
■  The setting up of a stock exchange for SMEs.
■  Service entity for the collection and payment of statutory dues of SMEs. 
Government Procurement:
■  The policy will also consider use of public procurement with stipulation of local 
value addition in specified sectors. These include areas of critical technologies 
such  as  solar  energy  equipment,  electronic  hardware,  fuel  efficient  transport 
equipment,  IT  based  security  systems,  power,  roads  and  highways,  railways, 
aviation and ports.
6.  Industrial Training & Skill Upgradation Measures:
■  Skill-building among large numbers of a minimally educated workforce.
■  Relevant  vocational  and  skill  training  through  establishment  of  Industrial 
Training Institute (ITI) in Public Private Partnerships (PPP) mode.
■  Specialized skill development through the establishment of polytechnics.
■  Establishment of instructors’ training centre in each NIMZ.
7.  Exit Mechanism:
■  It envisages an alternate exit mechanism through a job loss policy and a sinking 
fund or a combination of both.
Thus, the incentives offered under new manufacturing policy areq uitebe neficialto  the  
large scale manufacturers and had made apositive contribution to the economic growth
of our country.
EMERGING ROLE OF PRIVATE SECTOR
The most notable feature of the Industrial Policy of 1991 is the acceptance of the maturity 
and the ability of the private sector and their capabilities to shoulder higher responsibilities. 
It can be said that the emerging role of the private sector has been crystallized by the 
Industrial Policy 1991.INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 101
Already, since the last two decades of reforms there have been an increased number of
companies, expansion and diversification by existing companies ,entering into key areas.
They hsve been responsible for raising industrial growth and also lifting India's growth in
recent times. The future will thus witness the following:
                     
(1) Alargerrespon sibility on theshouldersoftheprivatesectorforincreas ing investment,
  diversifica tion, taking in dustri alization forw ard a nd furtherin g industrialgrowth.    
(2) They w illhav epresen cein  allcore /criti calareasw  hich we repreviously reserved  forthe
public sector  such as oil, pow  er, etc ., and now prov ide com peti tion to them thereby 
  eroding the irmonopoly status besidesp utting  pre ssureon them  forbeing  competitive.
(3) They w ill command g reater resp ect fro m the go vernment and have say  in policy  
matters concerning the industrial sector. Already, they are known as the corporate
  sector.        
4)  Traditionalfam ily run businesse swould pave way to greaterprofessionalism.    
5) Segr egatio n o f ownership from management and  gradually to  holding companies like
Tata So ns as a holdin g co mpany an d other T  ata com panie s opera ti ng independe ntly 
such  as Tata Motors, Tata Finance, T1SCO, TELCO, etc., under a professional and 
  notpromoters/ owners.                
6) Many  private companies ha ve already gone  for big ticket global acq uisitions. T he
future w  o uld env ision more such acquisitions and help Indian private companies to 
  emer geasglobalc ompanies.          
7) The govern ment hav ing  realized  the competence  of pr ivate se ctor e specially  in 
execut ion of  pr ojects has rec ently resorted to the public private sector partnership 
  (PPP) modelfor infrastructuredevelopment.         
8) Therewould bean increasi ng trend toward s ‘corpo rate  go vernance’whic h is complete 
transparency in operation s, work ing in  the interest o f t he company  (not only  owners) 
and seeking  to maximize ‘va lue’ to theshareholders. It is also about b roader overview 
and grea ter professiona lism  by having indepe ndent board mem  bers  in the board  of
dire ctors of companie s, not rela ted dir ectly or in directly eith er to the comp any  or to 
the owners . Alrea dy, SEBI has made corpo rate gove rna nce m andatory for all lis ted  
companies and a stipulation of companies to have at least one-third directors as
in dependen t.        
9  The pri vate se ctor wo uld   operate w ith  greater res ponsibility  w ith  mo ral and 
ethical values tow ards their company, society  and the country as a who le, referred  
in  the  c orporate world   as co rp orate so cial responsi bility   ( CSR), of  businesses
cannotbeconfined to therealmsofbusinessonly and willhaveaspill-overin the
soc iet y.                 
(a) It is self-consc iousness  realization, of t he companies of th e need to reciprocate by 
fulf illing the  socie tal respo nsibilities, in any  m anner, as  deeme d a ppropriate by  
the compan y, but without any  compul sions or dire ctives  from the government. 
Through  a re cen t amendment to  the  Companie s A ct, CS R  has been  made
mandatory foralllisted companies,TheCompaniesAct,2013,hascalled upon102 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
companies having an et-worth of ₹ 5 00 croreor mo re;or atu rn overof ₹ 1,0 00  crore
                                 
ormore;oranetprofitof₹ 5c roreormoretoha veaCSRspendofa tleast2%oftheir
                   
averagenetprofitsofpastthreeyears.
                       
(b) There will be a growing realization on the part of the private sector that growth 
                 
of businesses and moral responsibilities will go together in future, as distinct
             
fromtheearlierperception ofdriven only forbenefitofself.
                       
(c) It is hoped that the unethical operations and frauds of M/s Satyam Computers
             
wasmorein thenatureofan exception and notrepeated by othercompanies.
               
(10) Many business houses may become philanthropic, giving their due share to society 
     
by setting up charitabletrusts,hospitals,etc.
               
(a) They  would  demonstrate to  the government that the private sector can 
               
contributein itsown way towardswelfareofthepeopleand socialdevelopment.
               
(11) Finally, the ‘mixed economy’ character would get further entrenched in future with 
               
co-existence of both the public and private sector working shoulder to shoulder in 
             
allthekey areasand jointly increasing industrialand overallgrowth oftheeconomy.
               
The mixed economy character has always been an avowed objective of the government
                       
since the first Industrial Policy of 1948, however, it was only seen as an intention of the
                       
government, more on paper. The future is likely to see the true emergence of the mixed 
             
economy  character. The policy  of liberalization  has imposed  great confidence on  the
               
private sector, as becoming partners to the government in developmental efforts, operating 
             
with acodeofethics,businessand moralresponsibilities,transparency in operations.
                         
It is up to the private sector to rise to the occasion, meet the expectations of the
                     
government and the people and ensure that the confidence reposed is never let down.
                   
However, for the private sector to truly emerge as visualized in the policy would require the
                   
government change from a direct provider of goods and services in creating that enabling 
           
environment,to ‘permitratherthan prevent’,to ‘allowratherthan stop’.
                         
The challenge before the private sector is not only to deliver, but in a more responsible
         
mannerrealizing thatbusinessand moralresponsibilitiesgo together.
 
ExitPolicy
                         
‘It is often said that absence of an exit policy is a cog in the wheels of liberalization.’ What
                   
is an exit policy? The policy of liberalization has given the freedom of entry but also given 
                             
the risks of businesses that it is not necessary for all to survive, some may die a natural
           
death, some industries may need to reorient into different businesses by closing down 
           
existing businessesand thereliestheneed foran exitpolicy.
               
An exit policy thus facilitates companies to close down their businesses, allowing them
                 
to reorient, restructure operations, in terms of market needs, with minimum restrictions
                       
from the government and in a quick time frame. At present, in India there is no exit policy 
               
and closure of companies is complex and cumbersome with multiple government bodies
           
and ‘acts’making closureextremely difficultand can takeoverseveralyears.INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 103
Realizing  its  importance  the  government  has  set  up  the  ‘National  Company  Law 
Tribunal’ as a one stop shop, single reference point for all sick companies either seeking 
revival or closure within a period of twenty-four months of the case filed with NCLT. This 
would bring under one roof all the multiple bodies together to work in a coordinated 
manner either for revival or for the closure of companies in a time bound manner, The 
NCLT is yet to become operational as it requires amendments to various ‘acts’ and also 
compliance of legal formalities.
An exit policy also has a ticklish issue which is labour-related and is a larger freedom 
to  the  management  of  companies  in  addressing  labour-related  issues.  That  is,  if  there 
is  freedom  to  recruit  there  should  also  be  discretion  to  a  company  to  dismiss  in  the 
larger  interests  of  the  company.  Unfortunately,  all  the  labour  laws  have  been  enacted 
during 1920s and 1930s to protect the interests of the workers in the industrial sector 
and  making  dismissing  labour  as  virtually  impossible  with  fears  of  strikes  and  labour 
unrest.
This has given rise to complacency, non-productive workers and a complete mismatch 
between  salaries  paid  and  the  output  of  workers.  As  long  as  the  Indian  market  was 
sheltered, large role of public sector these could be tolerated but in todays environment 
with increased competition productivity and efficiency have become critical for survival 
of companies.
Labour has to realize that ‘in the growth of the companies lies their future’ and not 
the other way around. Thus, labour reforms would involve factoring in productivity and 
linking salaries to productivity. Many feel that this will bring back the ‘hire and fire’ 
policy which had forced the government earlier to enact labour laws to protect interests of 
labour.
Labour reform is most controversial and no political party would like to touch given 
the likely fall-out, even going out of power. Let us get the facts straight first. All labour 
laws are there to protect the interest of 6-8 per cent of the workforce in the organized 
sector while the remaining 90 per cent and above engaged in the unorganized sector are 
outside the purview of labour laws.
Which sector needs protection: the organized or the unorganized sector? Clearly it is 
the vulnerable unorganized sector. Second, employment in the organized sector is ‘skilled’ 
and today most economies including India are feeling the pinch of shortage of skilled 
manpower. Companies would like to preserve the skill set acquired out of experience. 
If the labour has the skills and a willing worker why will be he thrown out? Times have 
changed and employee retention instead is a big challenge for companies today.
Thirdly, all the labour laws have been framed much before Independence and surely 
working environment has undergone a sea change which is not captured by these laws. 
Further, there is confusion over basic definitions, such as workmen, wages, employee, etc. 
Factory, etc., are all defined differently in different ‘acts’.104 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Provisions  under  factories  act  do  not  match  provisions  under  minimum  wages  act. 
In fact, all these acts are not only out of time but provided for rigidity and excessive 
regulatory legislations in the economy and as mentioned previously only for 6-8 per cent 
of the workforce in the organized sector.
Fourthly, has it occurred that despite the increased industrial growth it has not led to 
increased  employment  opportunities  in  the  organized  sector  as  the  prevalent  stringent 
labour laws have forced the companies to substitute labour with labour displacing capital, 
greater automation which is ironical for a labour surplus country like India.
Fifthly, realization is required amongst labour that the priority is to first protect the 
interest of the company and if that is protected their interest would also get protected. 
Labour and management have to become partners in the process of improving productivity 
as well as protecting the interests of the company.
Agreed,  no  matter  how  much  be  the  compulsion  for  labour  reforms  in  the  larger 
interest of the economy, it may be difficult to attempt given the democratic framework 
and fragile political set-up and cannot be pushed down as done in China.
However, at least a beginning can be made by reviewing the different labour laws, 
making  them  more  comprehensive,  removing  duplications  and  ambiguities  in  different 
acts, having a uniform definition of a ‘worker or labour’. That should not be difficult. The 
government can also initiate dialogue with political parties and representatives of various 
trade unions emphasizing upon the need for such reforms and arriving at a broad-based 
consensus.
What is appalling is the government disinterest to even start thinking on these lines. 
Labour reforms in India is the hardest of reforms and has the potential of unleashing 
a  storm,  a  great  upheaval,  and  can  have  a  grave  political  fallouts  and  has  to  tread 
carefully  and  gradually  by  building  consensus  step-by-step.  Until  such  a  time  it  may 
delay  further  reforms  and  the  correct  way  for  going  ahead  is  to  make a modest  and 
acceptable  beginning.  At  the  same  time  it  should  also  be  kept  in  mind,  that  without 
changing the labor environment and with present levels of protection through multiple 
trade unions, would only imply not getting full benefits of reforms for which reforms 
cannot be blamed.
EASE OF DOING BUSINESS IN INDIA
The government of India has taken a series of following measures to improve ‘Ease of 
Doing Business’ in the country. Existing rules have been simplified and information tech­
nology is introduced to make governance more efficient and effective:
•  The  process  of  applying  for  Industrial  License  (IL)  and  Industrial  Entrepreneur 
Memorandum  (IEM)  has  been  made  online  and  this  service  is  now  available  to 
entrepreneurs on a 24x7 basis at the eBiz website.INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 105
•  Twenty services are integrated with the eBiz portal which will function as a single 
window  portal  for  obtaining  clearances  from  various  governments  and  government 
agencies.
•  Notification has been issued by Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) to limit 
number of documents required for export and import to three.
•  The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has introduced an integrated process of incorporation 
of  a  company,  wherein  applicants  can  apply  for  Directors  Identification  Number 
(DIN)  and  company  name  availability  simultaneous  to  incorporation  application 
[Form INC-29].
•  The Companies (Amendment) Act 2015 has been passed to remove requirements of 
minimum paid-up capital and common seal for companies.
•  Application  forms  for  Industrial  Licence  (IL)  and  Industrial  Entrepreneur 
Memorandum (IEM) have been simplified.
•  Defence products’ list for industrial licensing has been issued, wherein a large number 
of parts/components, castings/forgings, etc. have been excluded from the purview of 
industrial licensing.
•  Similarly,  dual-use  items,  having  military  as  well  as  civilian  applications  (unless 
classified as defence item), will also not require ILs from the defence angle.
•  The Ministry of Home Affairs has stipulated that it will grant security clearance on IL 
applications within 12 weeks.
•  An Investor Facilitation Cell has been created under Invest India to guide, assist and 
handhold investors during the entire life-cycle of the business.
•  The process of applying for environment and forest clearances has been made online 
through the Ministry of Environment and Forests and Climate Change portals.
•  Registration with the Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) and Employees 
State  Insurance  Corporation  (ESIC)  has  been  automated  and  ESIC  registration 
number is being provided on a real-time basis.
•  A  unified  portal  for  registration  of  units  for  Labour  Identification  Number  (LIN), 
reporting  of  inspection,  submission  of  returns  and  grievance  redrcssal  has  been 
launched by the Ministry of Labour and Employment.
•  A  report  titled  ‘Assessment  of  State  Implementation  of  Business  Reforms’  was 
released  on  14th  September  2015.  It  reports  the  findings  of  an  assessment  of 
reform implementation by states by the DIPP, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, 
Government  of  India,  with  support  from  World  Bank  group  and  KPMG.  This 
assessment  has  been  conducted to take stock  of  reforms  implemented by  states  in 
the period January 1 to June 30 2015, based on a 98-point action plan for business 
reforms  agreed  between  the  DIPP  and  states/union  territories  (UT)  and  rank  them 
according to the ease of doing business.106 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
VISION OF A NEW INDIA
The Government has created an action-oriented plan by highlighting specific sector level 
interventions to make India becoming a $5 trillion economy by 2025. The vision aims to 
boost Services sector $3 trillion, Manufacturing and Agriculture to $ 1 trillion each.
12 Champion Sectors
The  Government  has  decided  to  give  focused  attention  to  12  identified  Champion 
Services  Sectors  for  promoting  their  development,  and  realizing  their  potential.  These 
champion  sectors  include  Information  Technology  &  Information  Technology  enabled 
Services (IT &ITeS), Tourism and Hospitality Services, Medical Value Travel, Transport 
and Logistics Services, Accounting and Finance Services, Audio Visual Services, Legal 
Services,  Communication  Services,  Construction  and  Related  Engineering  Services, 
Environmental Services, Financial Services and Education Services.
Agriculture Export Policy, 2018
The Government has formulated India’s first ever Agricultural Export Policy with a focused 
plan  to  boost India’s agricultural  exports to $60 billion by 2022 thereby assisting the 
Agriculture Ministry in achieving its target of $100 billion. The vision of the Agriculture 
Export Policy is to harness the export potential of Indian agriculture through suitable policy 
instruments and to make India a global power in agriculture and raise farmers’ income.
Promotion of Trade
The Government has identified 15 strategic overseas locations where the Trade Promotion 
Organisations (TPOs) are proposed to be created. The locations where TPOs are proposed: 
Astana (Kazakhstan), Beijing (China) Cape town (South Africa), Dubai (UAE), Frankfurt 
(Germany),  Ho  Chi  Minh  City  (Vietnam),  Jakarta  (Indonesia)  Lima  (Peru),  London 
(U.K.),  Melbourne  (Austrialia),  Mexico  City  (Mexico),  Moscow  (Russia),  New  York 
(USA), Sao Paulo (Brazil) and Tokyo (Japan).
Diversification of Exports
The Government is making all efforts to diversify India’s export basket region wise and 
commodity wise. Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) are a means of correcting India’s balance 
of trade.
Trade Infrastructure for Export Scheme
The  Trade  Infrastructure  for  Export  Scheme  (TIES)  provides  assistance  for  setting  up 
and  up-gradation  of  infrastructure  projects  with  overwhelming  export  linkages  like  the 
Border Haats, Land customs stations, quality testing and certification labs, cold chains, INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 107
trade promotion centres, dry ports, export warehousing and packaging, SEZs and ports, 
airports cargo terminuses.
Ease of Doing Business for Exporters - Steps Taken By Dgft:
Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) has taken several measures to strengthen the 
IT platform and create ease of doing business for exporters:
•  DGFT has upgraded the existing IT-hardware this year.
•  An online grievance redressal service was launched on DGFT website as a single point 
contact for all foreign trade related issues of the exporters and importers.
•  DGFT $ EDI system provides facility for online application by exporters-importers for 
most of its schemes and authorizations.
•  An online view of Shipping Bill data, electronically received form Customs, has been 
created.  Now  DGFT  regional  Offices  are  using  electronically  transmitted  SB  data 
from Customs for various other purposes also.
•  Exporters can self-generate Importer Exporter Code (IEC) on online platform.
•  Online auto approval of MEIS benefit has been introduced.
Ranking of States
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry, in collaboration with the World Bank conducts 
an annual reform exercise for all States and Union Territories (UTs) under the Business 
Reform  Action  Plan  (BRAP)  to  improve  delivery  of  various  Central  Government 
regulatory functions and services in an efficient, effective and transparent manner. States 
and  UTs  have  conducted  reforms  to  ease  their  regulations  and  systems  in  areas  like 
labour, environmental clearances, construction permits, contract enforcement, registering 
property and inspections. States have also enacted Public Service Delivery Guarantee Acts 
to enforce the timelines on registrations and approvals.
District Level Development
Department of Industrial Policy has also developed a District level reforms plan. It has 
been shared with the State and UT Governments for implementation by Districts. The 
State  and  UT  Governments  have  been  requested  to  evaluate  districts  on  the  basis  of 
achievements in implementation of this plan on the basis of users’ feedback.
Make in India
Launched in 2014 to make India the hub of manufacturing, research and innovation by 
making India a part of global supply chain. This initiative is based on four pillars of New 
Processes, New Infrastructure, New Sectors and New Mindset.108 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Start up India
Start-up India is a flagship initiative of the Government of India, intended to build a strong 
ecosystem that is conducive for the growth of start-up businesses, to drive sustainable 
economic growth and generate large scale employment opportunities. This initiative aims 
to empower start-ups to grow through innovation and design.
Support and outreach campaign for MSMEs.
A  support  and  outreach  programme  has  been  launched  by  the  Government  to  boost 
MSME  sector.  This  is  aiming  at  Access  to  credit,  Access  to  market,  Technology  up 
gradation, Ease of doing business and a sense of security for employees. As part of this 
programme, government unveiled various initiatives to help the growth, expansion and 
facilitation of MSMEs across the country.
Multi -Modal Logistics Parks Policy
The Multi-Modal Logistics Parks (MMLPs) are key policy initiatives of Government to 
improve the country’s logistics sector by lowering over freight costs, reducing vehicular 
pollution and congestion and cutting warehouse costs with a view to promoting moments 
of goods for domestic and global trade.
Sez Policy
The objectives of new SEZ policy aims to make it WTO compatible, maximizing utilisation 
of vacant land in SEZs, effect changes in the SEZ policy based on international experience 
and merge the SEZ policy with other Government schemes like coastal economic zones, 
Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor, national industrial manufacturing zones and food and 
textiles parks.
Industrial Corridors
Industrial corridor programme envisions creation of world class infrastructure, connectivity 
and  new  greenfield  smart  cities  as  global  manufacturing  hubs  which  will  create  large 
employment opportunities.
Based  on  the  initial  success  of  Delhi  Mumbai  Industrial  Corridor  (DMIC)  Project 
the Government has started planning and development activities in four other industrial 
corridor  projects  i.e.  Amritsar  Kolkata  Industrial  Corridor  (AKIC),  Chennai  Bengaluru 
Industrial  Corridor  (CBIC),  Bengaluru  Mumbai  Economic  Corridor  (BMEC)  and  East 
Coast Economic Corridor (ECEC) from Kolkata to Chennai.
Indian Footwear, Leather & Accessories Development Programme (IFLADP)
The Government has approved a special package for employment generation in leather 
and  footwear  sector.  The  package  involves  implementation  of  Central  Sector  Scheme INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND LIBERALIZATION 109
“Indian  Footwear,  Leather  &  Accessories  Development  Programme”  with  an  approved 
expenditure of Rs. 2600 crore over the three financial years from 2017-18 to 2019-20.
North East Industrial Development Scheme
With the purpose to boost industrialization of the States of North East region including 
Sikkim,  the  Government  has  been  implementing  industrial  subsidy  schemes  such  as 
North  East  Industrial  Policy,  (NEIP),  North  East  Industrial  and  Investment  Promotion 
Policy, (NEIIPP), Transport Subsidy Scheme(TSS) and Freight Subsidy Scheme(FSS). To 
continue extending benefits for the industrial units situated in the North Eastern Region, 
a new policy “North East Industrial Development Scheme” (NEIDS) was notified in 2017 
for a period of five years.
Industrial Development Scheme for Himalayan States.
Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) had introduced various concessions 
for the State of Jammu & Kashmir namely, to boost up industrialization. For the States of 
Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand various concessions were introduced
More Power to Geographical Indications (Gl):
G1 logo and taglineh avebe en launched by Union Governmentforr eco gnition ofGI'si n Ind ia.
               
Many GI'shavebeen registered in pastrecently including famousGIlikeBanglaRasgullaand 
 
Alphonso.
 
   
 
   
   
                     
 
 
 
        CHAPTER10
INFRASTRUCTURE 
DEVELOPMENT
INFRASTRUCTURE IN GLOBAL CONTEXT
Overall infrastructure basically comprises of crude oil exploration and refining, electricity 
generation,  coal,  steel,  cement,  communications  and  transport  (rail,  road,  ports  and 
airports). Infrastructure is also segregated as rural infrastructure (comprises of irrigation, 
roads,  electricity  and  creation  of  social  assets  in  villages)  and  urban  infrastructure 
(comprises of public transport, up-gradation of roads and civic amenities in urban areas).
There is also reference nowadays to soft infrastructure which is education and skill 
development, human capital development. While all these are important but in terms of 
criticality it is the overall infrastructure and with increased growth there is need for more 
than  proportionate  growth  in  infrastructural  sector  investment  to  match  the  growth  of 
the economy.
India’s infrastructure can be known to be adequate solely in respect of communications 
and in all other areas as deficient. Infrastructure globally has certain unique characteristics 
as mentioned below:
(1)  It is a dynamic concept implying continuous investments in infrastructure. It can 
never be said to be adequate’.
(2)  Infrastructure growth has to precede growth of economies. First roads need to be re­
built before cars are manufactured or factories can be set up only once electricity is 
there and not the other way around.
(3)  Infrastructure has to be for 365 x 24 hours leaving no scope for reactive maintenance 
(after break-downs) but has to be proactive maintenance (before break-down).
(4)  Infrastructure development requires visioning, always for the future and not for the 
present  as  otherwise  given  their  long  periods  for  completion  they  would  become 
inadequate once completed.
(5)  Infrastructure always needs to be seen from a global perspective and not from the past 
history.
(a)  For example, the Government of India can take pride in mentioning that in the 
last 10 years they have constructed 8000 km of highways a feat never achieved 
in the past.
(b)  However, in the same period China has constructed 25,000 km of highways. 
Infrastructure comparison is always global.112 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(6)  Infrastructure has always got to be effective’. This can be defined with the following 
example:  Hyderabad  airport  in  India  is  world  class.  It  has  cut down  time at  the 
airport, faster check-in can handle manifold more passengers but it is located further 
away from the city.
Hence, what one has gained in saving the time at the airport has got lost in travel 
time  to  the  airport.  So  what  effective  infrastructure implies is  while building the 
airport simultaneously start the process of either widening the road to the airport 
and if it is not feasible explore an alternate entry point to the airport from the city.
ISSUES IN INDIAN INFRASTRUCTURE
(1)  Need for Long-term Resources—it has been estimated by the Planning Commission 
of India that an investment of USS 1000 billion is required in overall infrastructure 
alone over the next 10 years.
This will be USS 500 billion in the next five years or an annual investment of US$
100 billion for sustaining the present levels of growth and if we are talking about 
higher levels of growth, the magnitude of investment will only increase further. 
This would mean that investment in infrastructure which is presently around
5.5 per cent of GDP would have to be more than double to 12.5 per cent.
Infrastructure projects have long gestation period raising such long-term resources 
on an ongoing basis is a major issue. Such long-term funds are usually available 
in insurance and pension funds both of which are relatively still evolving in India. 
Insurance penetration is very low and so are pension funds.
Banks are not able to take exposures given the need for long-term resources as it 
will result in mismatch between assets and liabilities and can weaken the banks.
(2)  Pricing of Infrastructure—another issue is the under-pricing (pricing less than the 
commercial viability in terms of the market) of infrastructure which has questioned 
its sustainability in the long run.
(3)  Absence of Visioning—as mentioned previously, a key feature of infrastructure is 
the need for visioning say Infrastructure in India 2050. No serious thoughts are being 
given to the requirement of infrastructure over the next 30—40 years.
(4)  Infrastructure  as  a  National  Issue—infrastructure  development  continues  to  be 
driven through various governments in terms of their own priorities.
One  government  may  favour  building  highways  whereas  another  government 
may feel making rural roads a priority. Infrastructure has to be made apolitical or 
cutting across party lines as a national issue.
RECENT MEASURES TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT
The government realizing the importance of infrastructural sector has taken a number of 
steps that are briefed below:
(1)  It  has set  up the India  Infrastructure Finance Company  Ltd.,  (IIFCL)  exclusively 
for  leveraging  investment  in  infrastructure  projects.  It  is  expected  to  leverage  an 
investment of over  ₹ 50,000 croreso vera p eriod ofti me.INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 113
(2)  IIFCL,  Infrastructure  Development  Finance  Company  (IDFC),  Citigroup,  and 
Blackstone Group have jointly announced a launch of USS 5 billion fund to finance 
infrastructure projects in India.
(3)  IIFCL has set up a subsidiary at London with funds of USD 5 billion to fund Indian 
companies importing capital goods/machineries exclusively for infrastructure projects 
in India.
(4)  The Planning Commission of India has proposed a USD 11 billion multi infra debt 
funds for funding infrastructure projects in India.
(5)  The government has recently announced the p ublic p rivate s ector p artnership (PPP)  
model for infrastructure projects in India.
(a)  This model seeks to leverage on the strengths of the government (inter-ministerial 
clearances, environment and forest clearances, shifting of vital installations and 
land acquisitions).
(b)  The private sector is then entrusted the task of building the infrastructure in 
terms  of  government  specifications  by  using  their  own  resources  in  a  given 
time period. There is an incentive mechanism for projects completed ahead of 
schedule.
(c)  In turn, it allows the private sector to levy pre-agreed ‘Toll’  (for  road projects) 
                   
or‘user charges ’(airports )under the build-operate -transfer (BOT)model of
partnership.
                   
(d) A slight variant to  this is design-build-finance-operate (DBFO) where the
                   
competence in the ‘design of projects is also done by the private sector rather
 
than by thegovernment.
                   
(e) Recently, the government under the PPP model has also initiated levying of
       
‘negativegrants’forhighly profitableroad projects.
               
(f) The private companies while bidding  for such  projects would  also  have to 
                 
provide the amount of money from their likely future earnings they are willing 
                     
to give ‘Up-front’ before the contract is awarded by the government, as what is
   
known asnegativegrant.
 
UrbanInfrastructure
     
The Government of India has launched the following schemes for development of urban
                   
infrastructure:
       
1. Smart Cities: The Government of India has launched a mission on Smart Cities,
                            
with the collaboration of states and UTs for implementation of the flagship pro­
                   
gramme for urban development. The purpose of the Smart Cities Mission is to drive
                              
economic growth and improve the quality of life of people by enabling local area
                         
development and harnessing technology, especially technology that leads to smart
         
outcomes.
     
The Smart Cities Mission targets promoting cities that provide core infrastructure and
                          
give a decent quality of life to its citizens, a clean and sustainable environment and
                         
application of‘smart’ solutions. The focus is on sustainable and inclusive development
                      
andtheideaistolookatcompactareasandcreateareplicablemodelwhichwillactlike
                       114 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
a lighthouse to other aspiring cities. The core infrastructure development in a smart city 
includes adequate water supply; assured electricity supply; sanitation, including solid 
waste management; efficient urban mobility and public transport; affordable housing, 
especially for the  poor; robust IT connectivity and digitalization; good governance, 
especially  e-Govcrnance  and  citizen  participation;  sustainable  environment;  safety 
and security of citizens, particularly women, children and the elderly; and health and 
education.
The  strategic  components  of  area-based  development  in  the  Smart  Cities  Mission 
are city improvement (retrofitting), city renewal (redevelopment) and city extension 
(greenfield development) plus a pan-city initiative in which smart solutions are applied 
covering larger parts of the city. Retrofitting will introduce planning in an existing 
built-up area to achieve smart city objectives, along with other objectives, to make the 
existing area more efficient and liveable. In retrofitting, an area consisting of more than 
500 acres will be identified by the city in consultation with citizens. Redevelopment 
will effect a replacement of the existing built-up environment and enable co-creation 
of  a  new  layout  with  enhanced  infrastructure  using  mixed  land  use  and  increased 
density. Redevelopment envisages an area of more than 50 acres, identified by ULBs 
in consultation with citizens. Greenfield development will introduce most of the smart 
solutions in a previously vacant area (more than 250 acres) using innovative planning, 
plan financing and plan implementation tools (e.g. land pooling/ land reconstitution) 
with provision for affordable housing, especially for the poor. Greenfield development 
is required around cities in order to address the needs of the expanding population.
The Mission will cover 100 cities which have been distributed among the states and 
UTs on the basis of equitable criteria. The distribution of smart cities will be reviewed 
after two years of the implementation of the mission. Based on an assessment of the 
performance of states/ULBs in the challenge, some reallocation of the remaining potential 
smart cities among states may need to be done by the Ministry of Urban Development 
(MoUD).
2.  Swachh  Bharat  Mission  (SBM):  The  SBM  aims  at  making  India  free  from  open 
defecation  and  at  achieving  100  percent  scientific  management  of  municipal  solid 
waste in 4041 statutory towns/cities in the country. The targets set for the mission 
which  have  to  be  achieved  by  2nd  October  2019  are:  construction  of  1.04  crore 
Individual Household Latrines (1HHL), 2.52 lakh Community Toilet (CT) seats and 
2.56 lakh Public Toilet (PT) seats; and achieving 100 percent door-to-door collection 
and scientific management of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW). The estimated cost of 
implementation oft heS BMis ₹62 ,0 09 crore.Ason  1stD  ecemb er2015,5.9 1 lakh  
           
IHHLs and  28,948  community  and  public toilets have been  completed  under the
                   
SBM. In 33,278 wards out of a total of 78,633, 100 percent door-to-door collection 
                 
is taking place under Municipal Solid Waste Management and 17.62 percent of the
     
totalwastegenerated isbeing processed.
             
3.  National Heritage City  Development And Augmentation Yojana  (HRIDAY): The
                   
Government has announced the vision of a slum-free India through a new scheme,
                 
the Rajiv Awas Yojana. The HRIDAY scheme aims at preserving and revitalizing the
                       
soul and unique character of heritage cities in India. In the first phase, with a total
           
outlay of^500 crorefully funded by thecentralgovernment,twelvecities-Ajmer,INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 115
Amaravati,  Amritsar,  Badami,  Dwarka,  Mathura,  Puri,  Varanasi,  Velankanni,  Kan- 
chipuram, Gaya and Warangal—have been identified for development.
4.  Atal  Mission  For  Rejuvenation  And  Urban  Transformation  (AMRUT):  Owns 
which will be known as mission cities/towns.  The  total  outlay for  AMRUT,  which 
is being operated asa Ce ntrally Sponsored Scheme(CS S),is₹50 ,00 0  croreforfivey ears 
from  financ ialye ar2015-16  to 2 019-20.Citieswith ap opulati on of10  lakh orabove are
entitled  to cen trala ssistanceofone-thir d ofthepr ojec tcostand all othe rcities,o neha lfof
the projec t cost. Bala nce f und ing  isto be  arran ged by s tate govern ments  /Urban Local
Bodi es(ULB),including private investm  ent.    
5.  HRIDAY:  North  Eastern  Region  Urban  Development  Programme  -NERUDP: 
The  North  Eastern  Region  Urban  Development  Programme  (NERUDP)has  been 
teken  up  by  the  Ministry  of  Urban  Development  (MoUD)  with  the  financial  as­
sistance  from  Asian  Development  Bank  (ADB).  ADB  contribution  is  70%  of  the 
cost as loan to the Government of India. The scheme is being implemented in the 
capital  cities  of  5  North  Eastern  States  viz. Agartala (Tripura), Aizawl (Mizoram), 
Gangtok (Sikkim), and Kohima (Nagaland) covering priority urban services viz. (i) 
Water Supply, (ii) Sewerage and Sanitation, and (iii) Solid Waste Management be­
sides capacity building, institutional and financial reforms at an estimated cost of Rs 
1371 crore. The projects under the NERUDP scheme have been spread over three 
Tranches  and  are  under  execution  in  the  project  cities  since  2009.  These  projects 
have been planned for completion by June, 2019.
Funds  are  released  by  the  Ministry  to  the  participating  Stares  on  reimbursement 
basis in the ratio of 90% grant and 10% loan.
6.  Setu  Bharatam  Program:  Setu  Bharatam  program  aims  at  building  bridges  for 
seamless  and  safe  on  National  Highways  and  make  all  National  Highways  free  of 
railway level crossings by 2019. This is being done to prevent the frequent accidents 
and loss of lives at level crossings. Under this program, 208 Railway Over Bridges 
(ROB)/Railway Under Bridges (RUB) will be built at the level crossings at a cost 
of Rs. 20,800 Cr as part of the program. In addition to this, about 1500 old and 
worn  down  bridges  will  also  be  improved  by  replacement/widening/strengthening 
in a phased manner at a cost of about Rs. 30,000 crore.
7.  Bharatmala  Pariyojana:  Bharatmala  Pariyojana  is  a  new  umbrella  program  for 
the  highways  sector  that  focuses  on  optimizing  efficiency  of freight and passenger 
movement  across  the  country  by  bridging  critical  infrastructure  gaps  through  ef­
fective  interventions  like  development  of  Economic  Corridors,  Inter  Corridors  and 
Feeder  Routes,  National  Corridor  Efficiency  Improvement,  Border  and  International 
connectivity roads, Coastal and Port connectivity roads and Green-field expressways. 
A total of around 24,800 kms are being considered in Phase I. In addition, Phase 
I  also  includes  10,000  kms  of  balance  road  works  under  NHDP.  Estimated  outlay 
for Phase I is Rs 5,35,000 crores spread over 5 years. The objective of the program 
is  optimal  resource  allocation  for  a  holistic  highway  development/improvement 
initiative.116 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
8.  Pradhan  Man  tri  Awas  Yojana  (Urban):  Pradhan  Mantri  Awas  Yojana  -  Housing 
for  All  (Urban)  is  launched  by  the  Central  Government  with  an  aim  to  provide 
housing to all urban people by 2022. Under the scheme central assistance is given 
to States and UTs for constructing houses to all eligible sections from urban slums 
and  economically  weaker  sections.  Slum  rehabilitation  and  affordable  housing  to 
Economically Weaker Sections are the major features of this project.
INFRASTRUCTURE AND ITS KEY CHALLENGES
Despite the efforts of the government as highlighted above infrastructural development 
still has a few challenges as mentioned below:
(1)  The World Economic Forum has ranked India in terms of infrastructure as 89 among 
139 countries. Countries such as China have a rank of 50 and Brazil 62. This implies 
that our infrastructure is viewed as grossly inadequate by global standards.
(2)  Raising long-term resources would require reforms in banking, insurance and pension 
funds as that is where long-term resources are available.
(3)  Further,  long-term  resources  for  infrastructure  can  also  come  through  foreign 
investment (like in case of China) and government would have to further liberalize 
its policies to attract foreign investment in India.
(4)  The  PPP  model  is  appreciable  but  cannot  substitute  government  spending  given 
the huge magnitude of resources required. It can at best play a supportive role in 
infrastructure development.
(5)  India’s metro infrastructure of Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai are virtually collapsing 
despite  efforts of  the state government.  Even  the major  urban centres are having 
severe  infrastructural  constraints,  despite  having  the  Jawaharlal  Nehru  National 
Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM).
(6)  That  is,  to  say  the  government  cannot  absolve  itself  of  its  responsibilities  of 
infrastructure development.
The twin challenges are as follows:
How  would  the  government  raise  resources  given  the  budgetary  constraints?  The 
compulsions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBMA) would 
not only allow it to raise expenditure to keep the deficit level under check. The government 
has a legacy of an inefficient spender in the economy with as many as three hundred 
government projects delayed by over eighty earsw ith ac osto ver-run of ₹ 49,000 crores.
How to make the government an efficient spender in the economy? There are myriads 
issues of land acquisition, inter-ministerial coordination and bureaucratic delays which is 
inbuilt in any government functioning.
The other is that we have to learn from the Chinese experience in infrastructure de­
velopment. They have kept the scale of existing ideas, instructive and unconventional, 
something as unbelievable.
Globally, it was believed that trains running over 450 km per hour was technically and 
scientifically not possible. The Chinese have proved every one wrong. They have constructed INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 117
around 17 bridges over one river which is 100 years maintenance free and many of them are 
the longest in the world and completed in record time.
Beijing, their capital, has an airport which is bigger than Heathrow of London and 
is sufficient to meet the passenger and cargo load for the next 25 years. Their rail link of 
2000 km from mainland China to Tibet at a height of over 15,000 ft is an engineering 
feat in itself.
India is still bogged down with playing around with existing ideas, existing knowledge 
and  technology.  India  requires  ‘innovative  infrastructure’,  the  impossible  infrastructure, 
beyond  conventional  and  then  just  do  it  the  way  China  has  done  and  thus  requires 
infrastructure  visioning,  making  it  a-political,  cutting  across  political  parties  with  the 
objective of providing the infrastructure to support higher rates of growth and at the same 
time not only world class but defining newer boundaries of infrastructure.
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
A still larger issue now emerging is the environmental issues, erosion of forest cover, etc., 
around  the  infrastructure  projects.  The  present  issues  being  faced  in  Orissa  and  other 
states on projects which can not only alter the face of the state but also the nation in terms 
of economic development need deeper introspection.
The environmental issues raised on companies such as POSCO and the Vedanta Group 
in Orissa may deny an investmentop portunity'in  thestat eofo ver ₹60,0 0 0 croreswhich  hasthe
pote ntia lto trans formOrissaf rombe ing ab ackwar d to aprogress ivestate.  
Similarly, stalling the Lavasa project in Maharashtra, is a myopic view' by the government 
as it has the potential to redefine the urban development and probably post-construction 
would be extremely environment-friendly more than any other city in the country.
The  Prime  Minister  has  indicated  that  there  should  be  a  balance  between  the  two 
aspects. However, development should be a prime concern clearly as it involves the people, 
means of livelihood for them as fundamentally more important today.
It  needs  to  be  remembered  in  mind  that  improvements  in  welfare  of  people  and 
states should be the prime consideration and ‘way out’ should be found for addressing 
the environmentali ssuesa ndth ewa yout shou ldnotbe bya ban don ingthe proje ctbu tfinding  the 
waysar oun dthem .  
Are these the only environmental issues? What about the issues of slum development, 
waste  management,  banning  use  of  plastics,  rural/urban  habitation,  polluted  rivers, 
erosion of forest cover? Are these not major issues?
                       
Indiahas myriadsofissuesofunemployment,acutebackwardnessofstates,development
deficit, investment deficit, development divide across many states and such other divides. 
If it is possible for the private/foreign players to provide answers for such divides, their 
projects should be encouraged rather than discouraged and a way out found for them.
This is a government-related issue of being short sighted in the guise of environmental 
issues, over-looking positive and tangible welfare gains for the states and the country as 
a whole. India, thus, has a number of infrastructural related issues, which will solely get 118 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
compounded with increased intensity as the growth levels begin to accelerate and also with 
the growing population exerting greater pressure on the infrastructure.
The government can also consider of having a separate budget for infrastructure. The 
railway budget could constitute a part of this budget allowing for greater complementarity 
between various sectors of infrastructure. 
There is a need for a greater broad-based discussion on the imperatives of infrastructure 
in future as otherwise it will become a limiting factor for growth.
PORTS IN INDIA—AN ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVE
Globally ports are regarded as gateway for trade of goods and merchandise entry and 
exit from a country. They also play a pivotal role in accelerating the development of 
regions/economies. As an open economy, neglect of ports can solely be at the expense of 
development of such economies.
India’s fact sheet of ports consists of twelve major ports (two additionally approved— 
one in West Bengal and the second at Andhra Pradesh) and two hundred odd minor ports 
accounting for 95 per cent of cargo movement by volume and 70 per cent by value. The 
present port capacity is around 1000 million tonnes (MT).
Imports  of  crude  petroleum,  iron  ore,  coal  and  other  essential  commodities  are all 
through the sea route. Realizing the importance of developing our ports to handle large 
volumes and increase cargo movement, the government has allowed 100 per cent private 
sector and  100  per cent FDI  participation in  this  sector. Further,  a ‘Maritime Agenda 
2010-2020’, a perspective plan has been prepared which has set the goals as follows:
(1)  To increase India’s share in global ship building to 5 per cent from the present 
1 per cent.
(2)  To increase the share of Indian seafarers from 6-7 per cent to at least 9 per cent in the 
global shipping industry during 2015.
(3)  To create a port capacity of around 3200 MT to handle the expected traffic of about 
2500 MT during 2020.
(4)  To bring ports at par with the best international ports in terms of performance and 
capacity.
(5)  To increase the tonnage under the Indian flag and Indian control and also the share 
of Indian ships in our exim trade.
(6)  To  promote  coastal  shipping  as  it  will  help  in  decongesting  our  roads  and  is 
environment-friendly.
(7)  In order to promote private participation and foreign direct investment (FDI) in the 
country, the Government of India has allowed 100 per cent FDI under the automatic 
route for:
•  Captive facilities for port-based industries.
•  Leasing of equipment for port handling and leasing of floating crafts.INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 119
•  Leasing of existing assets of ports.
•  Construction/creation  and  maintenance  of  assets  such  as-container  terminals 
bulk/break  bulk/multi-purpose  and  specialized  cargo  berths,  warehousing, 
container freight stations, storage facilities and tank farms, handling equipment, 
setting up of captive power plants, dry docking and ship repair facilities.
As way of incentive, 100 per cent exemption from income tax is also extended to companies 
that are investing in port infrastructure. Further, a ten-year tax holiday has been given to 
enterprises which are engaged in the business of developing, maintaining and operating 
ports, inland waterways and inland ports.
India’s shipping ministry is considering in removing the tariff fixing for major ports, 
passing responsibility for this to the ports themselves. Instead, a new regulator for the 
sector will be appointed who will be responsible for setting, monitoring and regulating 
service levels as well as technical and performance standards. The ministry has also decided 
that all new major ports would be constructed through a corporate structure and will be 
registered under the Companies Act 1956.
Recent Government Initiatives
Contract to develop the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trusts (JNPT) container terminal at Navi 
Mumbai has been awarded to aD ubai-based company ata tot alcos tof  ₹60 0  crores(US S100. 
20 million ).Ga il Ind ia and  the Shi pping  Corporation  of In dia (S CI)h ave si gned  a
m emorandumof und erstanding (MoU)to co operatefortran spor tation ofliquefied n aturalgas
             
LNGsourced by Gailfromthe United States(US).
             
The government has approved the project for upgradation of an existing facility and 
                     
the creation of a new facility at Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) for iron ore handling 
               
in two phases on  design, build, finance, operate and  transfer (DBFOT) basis with  an 
     
investmentof₹845.41 crores(USS153.95m  illion).
                 
Threemajorprojects,witha nin vestment of ₹1800cro res(USS330.08milli on),arebeing
           
                   
takenupbytheVPT.TheUnionShippingMinistryhasstartedworkingonsomeofitsplanssuch
                           
   
ascorporatization ofmajorporttrusts.Mumbai’sJNPTwillbethefirstporttobecorporatized.
               
         
Thereare14,500kmofnavigableandpotentially navigableinlandwaterways inthecountryof
             
             
whichthefollowing fiveinlandwaterways havebeendeclared asNational Waterways andthe
           
   
detailsarelistedbelow.
       
     
• National Waterway-1—Allahabad-Haldia stretch of the Ganga-Bhagirathi-Hooghly
                 
         
river (Total length 1620 km) in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and
 
WestBengal.
           
     
• NationalWaterway-2—Sadiya-DhubristretchoftheBrahmaputrariver(Total
       
     
length891km)inthestateofAssam.
         
       
• NationalWaterway-3—Kollam-KottapuramstretchofWestCoastCanaland
               
       
ChampakaraandUdyogmandalcanals(Totallength205km)inthestateofKerala.120 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
•  National Waterway-4: (Total length 1027 km) in the states of Andhra Pradesh and 
Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry.
•  National Waterway-5: (Total length 588 km) in the states of West Bengal and Orissa.
•  National Waterway 6: National Waterway 6 is the proposed waterway which connects
Assam with Mizoram on the river Barak. The 121 km long waterway will help in 
trading between town of Silchar to Mizoram State.
The government has approved projects for development of multi-purpose berths as well 
as  merchandised  berths  with  allied  facilities  on  DBFOT  (design-build-finance-operate- 
transfcr) basis at Haldia Dock II (North) for a period of 30 years at an estimated cost 
of ₹8 21.40 crores(U SS151 .39 million)and  atHaldia  Dock  II(South) foraperi od o f3 0 years
at an estimat ed  costof^886.10 cro res (US$ 163.32 mi llion).Theprojectswille nable Kolkata 
Port Trust t o enhanc e its capaci ty by 23.4 m  ill ion tonnes perannum (MTPA)a nd m eet the 
demand f orcoaland  oth erbulk cargo  in th ehinterlan d ofKolkataPort.      
The government has also approved licensing of land to the concessionaires for seven 
projects  which are t aken  up in the PPP mode. Thes e projects ha ve been taken u p in  terms
of the e xtant polic y of the Govern ment  of Ind ia to p ursue m aritim e development projects 
un der the PP P mode. T his will lead to  eff icienc y in opera tions at m ajor ports wh ich will 
benefi ttra dean d theec onom y as awhole.          
Gov ernm ent has  recently   ap proved  incentives to  promote domestic shipbuilding 
industry. These inclu de (i) financial assistance to dom estic shipyard s for any v essel built by 
them sub sequen t to its de livery an d (ii) relax ation of eli gibility cr iteri a for procu reme nts
or re pair of ves sels d one by  Governm ent departmen ts or agencies in clud ing  PSUs for 
go vernme nt  purpose or for  their own purpo se to grant R igh t of First Refusal to dome stic 
shipyards.                        
Special Purpose Vehicle to provide efficient last mile rail connectivity to Major Ports
with equity  from 1 1 Major Ports and  Rail Vika s N igam has been incorporated und er the 
Companies Act. T  his SPV ‘The I ndian Por t Rail Corpora tion  Limited’ started function ing  
from July 2 015  and s ince t hen h as taken up  23 pr ojects which are critic al for last mile rail
conne ctivity to theMajorP ons.                
The Ministry  of Shi pping, along  with  the Directorate General of Lighthouses and 
Lightsh ips (DGLL) has drawn   up  an  ambitiou s programm e to  de velo p  78  lightho uses
in the cou ntry as c entre s of tourism in the first phase unde r Public Private Partnership  
(PPP).  The identi fied ligh tho uses are  in Gu jarat , Maha rashtra , Goa, Karnata ka, Kerala,
Laksha dwee p, Tamil Nadu, Pud uche rry, Andhra  Pradesh, O disha,  West Ben gal and  
Andaman and  Nicobar Islands .            
Emphasizing  that  waterways would  be a game changer for the economy, Shipping 
Ministry  has sought  enhanced  budgetary  all ocation   from th e F inan ce Ministe r for the
sector as des pite bein g crucial to economy the Ministry ha s a paltry bu dgetary a lloca tion  
ofRs9 00  crore.          
   INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 121
The  ministry  also  urged  the  government  to  cut  logistics  cost  in  the  country  and 
streamline  the  taxation  structure,  including  the  implementation  of  the  crucial  goods  & 
services tax (GST) in the upcoming budget, to give a much-needed boost to the shipping 
industry.
The money granted by Union Budget should be of the amount facilitating grant of 
industry’ status to the sea logistics sector in India to enable coordination among various 
industries for integrated policy development. Further, the government should grant 
‘infrastructure’ status to the port and shipping industry so that it would reduce costs 
to buy technologically advanced and environment friendly ships and fleets, and create a 
Logistics Modernisation Fund’ for the growth of the sector.
Larger Issues of Ports in India
Notwithstanding the recent efforts of the government in augmenting capacities in ports in 
India there are certain critical issues which need to be resolved. They are as follows:
Development of port infrastructure in India is not on par with the other ports across 
the world. Trade in India has to face severe challenges due to inefficient port services. 
Shipping lines avoid touching ports in India because of the long waiting time. The capacity 
of various ports including Mumbai has already been exhausted and now capacities of other 
ports such as JNPT are on the verge of exhaustion.
Port  development  has  to  seen  in  a  holistic  and  comprehensive  manner  and  not  in 
isolation. They have to emerge as integrated transport centers as logistics platform covering 
links to the hinter land with the rail road network. There has to be complementarities 
between rail, road and ports, seen as one and not separately.
Indian ports are not equipped to handle large containers as a result ships are re-routed 
and parked at other larger ports and cargos are loaded in smaller vessels to facilitate 
their entry/exit out of the country. This raises costs and also transit time. India is heavily 
dependent  on  Colombo  as  a  transshipment  hub  which  has  both  economic  as  well  as 
political implications.
India also needs 24 x 7 custom cargo clearance facilities besides excessive paperwork 
and  documentation  requirement  solely  increase  transaction  cost.  Average  turn-around 
time of vessels of 3.5 days is very high compared to the international standards which are 
only in hours and not in days. This is a critical factor which delays consignments making 
them uncertain, unreliable and uncompetitive in comparison to other ports.
Indian ports also have a high through put and transport cost because of an inefficient, 
unorganized and un-coordinated truck movement which not only increase costs but also 
takes more time. It is also subject to frequent labor unrests, which disrupts loading and 
un-loading at ports.
Efforts at development of ports in India is only a recent phenomenon, however, more 
than development is to develop them with the future in view and how India can be made 
a hub for cargo movement. Rapid increasing trade will only add more and more pressure 
on the already created capacities which need to be augmented on a war footing.122 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Sagarmala Programme
This initiative is a series of projects to leverage coastline and inland waterways to drive 
industrial  development.  The  Project  was  originally  mooted  in  2003  as  the  waterways 
equivalent of the Golden Quadrilateral. This Project is expected to reduce cost and time 
for transporting goods, thereby benefiting industries and export and import.
The  project  includes  modernization  of  port  infrastructure,  improve  port  connectivity 
through rail corridors, freight-friendly expressways and inland waterways, create coastal 
economic  zones  and  development  of  skills  of  fishermen  and  other  coastal  and  island 
communities. Sagarmala project is expected to boost India’s merchandise exports to $110 
billion by 2025 and create an estimated 10 million new jobs.
E-governance Initiatives
The following services have now been made online -
•  Registration of ships
•  Application and seat booking for written and oral examinations
•  Application  and  processing  of  Continuous  Discharge  Certificates  (CDCs),  renewal 
and replacement/duplicate CDCs
•  Application processing and issuance of Certificate of Competencies (CoCs), dangerous 
cargo, GMDSS and Cookery certificates
•  Application, processing and issuance of chartering permission
•  Issue of registration certificate to transport operators
•  Master checker for seafarers
Despite  being  cleaner  and  cheaper  mode  of  transportation,  so  far  waterways 
development  has  remained on the backseat but government has taken a slew of steps 
to  promote  it.  Though,  outlook  for  the  shipping  sector  looks  subdued  for  short  term, 
but it will turn out to be fruitful in long term as government is taking several initiatives 
like Sagarmala Project and Jal Marg Vikas Project. Moreover, approval for incentives to 
promote domestic shipbuilding industry and developing 78 lighthouses as tourism centers 
will provide some boost to the sector. On the concern side, the performance of dry bulk 
and container operators will continue to be affected by weak global trade growth and 
persistent overcapacity. Nevertheless, the tankers segment, which accounts for a majority 
of the Indian fleet, had a dream run in 2015-16 with more than double daily rates for 
each asset class. The segment will remain an exception due to its better demand-supply 
situation.
INDIAN RAILWAYS—A CARRIER OF THE NATION
Indian Railways (IR) is known as the life line of the nation, with a total length of around 
64,000 km and the fourth largest network in the world after US, Russia and China. It 
runs around 12,000 passenger and 7000 freight trains daily. Only recently it has achieved 
a landmark of crossing 1 billion tonnes of freight movement.INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 123
Indian railway has dual function one of running commercially (freight operations) and 
the other social responsibility of being the life line (passenger movement) of the country. 
Bulk of the profits of railways thus comes out of freight operations. During 1951-1952, 
the ratio of freight shares of railways to roadways was 79:21. The railways enjoyed total 
dominance of bulk cargo as well as retail parcel cargo on medium and long haul routes. 
However, over the last 60-odd years, the ratio has been completely reversed and now road 
freight has a market share in excess of 80 per cent. More interestingly, roadways now have 
95 per cent share of retail parcel cargo transport. Even in bulk movement the share of rail 
movement is only 35 per cent and 60 per cent by road. In China, freight movement by 
road is only 22 per cent while in US it is 37 per cent. This essentially implies that freight 
movement by road is cheaper than the rail in India unlike other countries such as China 
and US where movement of freight by rail is cheaper than road.
This is despite the fact that the movement by roads has disadvantages, such as inclement 
weather conditions, fears of theft, accidents and also involves interstate movement resulting 
in crossing and checking at octroi check points, which could result in hold up, if papers 
and materials are not in order.
Problems of Rail Freight
First and the foremost reason for this is the high cost of rail movement arising out of policy 
of cross subsidization by IR. Passenger fares especially sleeper class are underpriced and 
made up through increased freight fares. In India, passenger rail fares are highly politically 
sensitive. However, this is also because of the social responsibility character of IR. At the 
same time, actual cost should be recovered. If fares are to be kept low, efforts should also 
be made to bring down costs at the same time. If passenger fares are to be lower than 
costs, then the difference should be recoverable from the government and not from freight 
charges.
According to the figures compiled by the World Bank, the freight rates charged by IR 
are extremely high compared to major freight railways such as US Railroads, Chinese and 
Russian Railways. In fact, the rates of US Railroads are only one-fourth of that charged by 
IR. Germany is the only country which has freight charges higher than India, but it is nor 
among the major railway freight movers globally.
Ihis is reflected in a fall in the fare-freight ratio for IR over the last five years, from 0.32 to 
0.26. In sharp contrast to this, the fare-freight ratio for China is 1.2 and for South Korea 1.4. 
The passenger fares to freight ratio for the Chinese Railways is four times higher than that of 
India. This shows that even a Communist country such as China is charging remunerative 
fares to run their railway network, which is considered far more efficient than that of 
India.
Second reason is that over 60 per cent of the freight movement is through electric 
traction which has high initial capital cost and also high overheads, resulting in higher 
cost for freight movement. There has always been a debate around diesel versus electric 
traction. However, there has been no empirical evidence found over superiority of electric 
over diesel traction. It has been established that initial capital cost of electric traction is 124 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
manifold more than that of diesel traction. This becomes more relevant in the case of India 
as it is deficit in power and electric traction of the railways will always get priority over 
the other users. The only positive factor is that it does not have variable price like that of 
diesel. The other point in this is the diesel and electric traction cannot be seen as alternates 
but as complements and a mix of say 50:50, given the vulnerability of supply and prices 
of imported crude petroleum.
One  method  of  distribution  is  to  allocate  passenger  traffic  for  electric  traction  and 
freight traffic for diesel traction. Allocating specific operational and geographic areas to 
either mode is another method. The objective is to give equal importance to both the 
modes.
Flexibility of diesel traction is its main advantage. Diesel traction is highly flexible and 
adaptable to future technological advancements such as the ‘fuel cell’ technology, posed 
as a promising alternative source of energy in the near future. Under this technology, a 
simple device combines hydrogen from a variety of fuels w ith oxygen from air to produce 
electricity. This requires no moving parts, and does not produce noise or smoke. Diesel 
locomotives can be easily converted by replacing engine with fuel cell.
According to the International Railway Journal, fuel cell trains shall be a reality in the 
near future. All overhead wires will then become redundant. A breakthrough has already 
been achieved by BHEL, Hyderabad. As and when it is imbibed all controversies around 
diesel versus electric traction would cease.
It is of vital importance that for the moment, we do not ignore the fact that both diesel 
as well as electric traction can meet the needs of the IR with equal efficiency. IF electric 
traction has a high capital cost, diesel traction is highly sensitive to diesel prices. Had diesel 
prices been that of the eighties, one could say diesel is preferable but not at todays prices. 
Thus, there should be no attempt at developing one mode at the cost of the other.
Whatever is the mode of movement either by road or rail, the entire logistics sector has 
a large number of inefficiencies, as a result the cost of logistics in India remains high at 
13-14 per cent of GDP as against 7-8 per cent of GDP in developed countries including 
China.
Remedial Measures
First and the  foremos t ar e th e passenge r far es th at need to  be raised to co ver c os ts of
operations especially for sleeper class in general. Higher classes should be seen from  the 
commercial angle and not as part of social responsibility. If at all, any cross subsidization 
should be there, it may be ‘inter class’, between sleeper class and the higher classes.
Secondly, it needs to  streamline its freight operation and raise the share in freight 
movement to around 50 per cent from the present level of 35 per cent which can be 
done through PPP model and wherever possible through privatization. Towards this the 
government has taken a few steps in recent times.
Private Sector Participation
Indian  railways  has  announced  opening  up  of  freight  train  and  terminal  operations  to 
private firms.U nderth enew priva tefreigh ttermina l(PFT)an d speci alfreighttrain    INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 125
operator (SFTO) scheme, the ministry has allowed private firms to use the IR’s network 
for commodity transport and to develop freight terminals. Private players will be allowed 
to set up PFTs and also to operate freight trains. The ministry plans to extend this to the 
existing registered container train operators and users having private sidings on private 
land. Thel icensef ee,u nderth eSF TOsch emeran gesbetw  een ₹5 cro resand 1 5 crores,which  
dependson the commo dity being moved.
The SFTO scheme offers a freight rebate of 12 per cent for a period of 20 years until 
the  recovery  of investment, whichever  is earlier. This could prove to be beneficial to 
private operators. It also addresses serious issues such as empty return load, which would 
be exempted from freight charges by the 1R. The private operator will be free to charge his 
customer freight and the handling charges.
The SFTO will be operated for movement of goods such as bulk fertilizers, cement, fly 
ash, chemicals, petrochemicals, steel, etc.A  m ajorc oncernw ithlo gisticsco mpanies is the tact 
that thea uto mobilesegm enthasn otb een includ edinthis sc hem e.
Under the PFT policy, operators will be able to book and handle all the traffic excluding 
outward coal, coke and iron-ore traffic. The revenue sharing for green field projects would 
start after five years of commissioning the terminal and after two years of commissioning 
a brown field project. The revenue-sharing model would be of 50 per cent of the then 
                           
prevailing rateofterminalchargeleviableatgoodsshedsor₹10 pertonnes,whicheverishigher.
               
Revenue sharing willbeannually increased by indexing itto increase in wholepriceindex (
WPI).
               
The ‘own your wagon’ scheme was introduced during 2005. The scheme focused on 
               
assured supply of a guaranteed number of rakes every month to a customer based on the
               
number of rakes procured by him with freight concessions. Private firms faced turnaround 
               
issuesdueto congestion and theschemedid notreally takeoffasenvisaged.
   
Dedicated FreightCorridor(DFC)
                       
However, the most ambitious project being undertaken, seen as a game changer, is the
                     
dedicated freight corridor (DFC). The Prime Minister has addressed that the DFC Project
             
costing nearly ₹1 lakh crores should begiven thehighest priority by central ministries and 
                     
urged thestategovernmentsalso to do so.Theprojectwillconnectaland massover3300 kmin 
                   
thecountry and could proveto beabackboneofIndia’seconomictransportfacility.
                   
The western corridor from Dadri in Uttar Pradesh to JNPT near Mumbai will be 1499 
             
.•on and will connect Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra with an exclusive high 
                 
speed railway track. The Eastern DFC from Ludhiana (Punjab) to Dankuni (West Bengal)
                     
will be 1839 km long and will connect Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal.
                   
A major part of western corridor will be funded with Japanese assistance and nearly two-
         
third oftheeastern corridorwillbeconstructed with World Bank assistance.
               
With  India joining  the select group  of billion  plus club  in  freight movement, the
                       
rocus has once again shifted on the prestigious DFC. The project will enhance the freight
           
carrying capacity of railways by manifold leading to incremental gains, apart from freeing 
                 
the existing lines on congestion. The project cost of eastern and western DFC is currently 126 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
estimated at ₹ 95,836 crores ,which also includes cost ofl and.W  estern DFCis fu nded by 
loan fromJapa n InternationalCoop eration Agency.While partof Easte rn  DFC,ofLudhia na- 
Khurja-Dadri-Kanpur-Mughalsaraisection isf unded by  World Bank.
The DFC will not only decongest the existing lines, which will in turn also help in 
increasing the speed of passenger trains, leading in to other benefits. The DFC though 
will run almost parallel with the existing lines but will not be used for moving passengers. 
Its aim is to provide multi-modal system for moving goods. The plan to construct DFCs 
across the country marks a strategic inflexion point in the history of IR that has essentially 
run  mixed  traffic  across  its  network.  Once  completed,  the  DFCs  will  enable  IR  to 
improve its customer orientation and meet market needs more effectively. Creation of rail 
infrastructure on such a scale—unprecedented in independent India—is also expected to 
drive the establishment of industrial corridors and logistic parks along its alignment.
Over two hundred locomotives with 9000 horse power (HP) are being bought from 
Japan that will run on DFC. The carrying capacity of rakes will increase from the current 
300 tonnes to over 12,000 tonnes. Even the length of the train will increase to 1500 m.
Length distribution of the corridor indicates that Rajasthan (39 per cent) and Gujarat 
(38 per cent) together constitute 77 per cent of the total length of the alignment of freight 
corridor, followed by Haryana and Maharashtra 10 per cent each and Uttar Pradesh and 
National Capital Region of Delhi 1.5 per cent of total length each. This DFC envisages 
a  high-speed  connectivity  for  High  Axle Load  Wagons  (25  tonnes)  of  double stacked 
container  trains  supported  by  high  power  locomotives.  The  Delhi-Mumbai  leg  of  the 
Golden Quadrilateral National Highway also runs almost parallel to the freight corridor. 
This corridor will be equipped with an array of infrastructure facilities such as power 
facilities, rail connectivity to ports en route, etc. Approximately, 180 million people, 14 
per cent of the population, will be benefitted by the corridor’s development.
This project incorporates nine mega industrial zones of about 200—250 sq. km, high 
speed freight line, three ports, and six air ports; a six-lane intersection-free expressway 
connecting the country’s political and financial capitals and also a 4000 MW power plant. 
Several industrial estates and clusters, industrial hubs, with top-of-the-line infrastructure 
would be developed along this corridor to attract more foreign investment. Funds for the 
projects will be from the Indian government, Japanese loans, and investment by Japanese 
firms and through Japan depository receipts issued by the Indian companies.
This high-speed connectivity between Delhi and Mumbai offers immense opportunities 
for  development  of  an  industrial  corridor  along  the  alignment  of  the  connecting 
infrastructure. A band of 150 km (influence region) has been chosen on both sides of 
the freight corridor to be developed as the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor. The vision 
for  DMIC  is  to  create  strong  economic  base  in  this  band  with  globally  competitive 
environment and state-of-the-art infrastructure to activate local commerce, enhance foreign 
investments,  real-estate  investments  and  attain  sustainable  development.  In  addition  to 
the influence region, DMIC would also include development of requisite feeder rail/road 
connectivity to hinterland/markets and select ports along the western coast.
Delhi-Mumbai  industrial  corridor  is  being  conceived  as  a  model  industrial  corridor 
of  international  standards  with  emphasis  on  expanding  the  manufacturing  and  services INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 127
base and develop DMIC as the ‘global manufacturing and trading hub’. The government 
is considering this ambitious project to establish, promote and facilitate Delhi-Mumbai 
industrial corridor to augment and create social and physical infrastructure on the route 
which is world class and will help spurring economic growth of the region.
Integrated Investment Regions and Industrial Areas (IAs) have been identified within 
the corridor to provide transparent and investment friendly facility regimes. These regions 
are proposed to be self-sustained industrial townships with world-class infrastructure, road 
and rail connectivity for freight movement to and from ports and logistics hubs, served 
by  domestic/  international air connectivity, reliable  power, quality  social infrastructure, 
and provide a globally competitive environment conducive for setting up businesses. An 
Investment Region would be a specifically delineated industrial region with a  minimum 
area ofo ver20 0 sq.km (20, 000 hectares),while  an IA swould  bedevelope d with aminimum 
areaofove r100  s q.km (10,000  hec tares).
As mentioned earlier, it is very ambitious project and once completed it will redefine 
freight movement, provide multipliers to increase growth, create employment opportunities 
                 
and also thebeginning ofmaking IRabasisforallround developmentwith an efficientmodeof
     
state-of-the-arttransportation facilities.
                       
Despite these recent initiatives, there are still other issues which IR needs to address
     
overacertain period oftime.
                         
Railways haveto becomeapartofaholistic‘nationallogisticpolicy’covering allmodes
             
of transport with linkages and complementarities between rail, road and sea. Expansion of
                 
rail network should keep the economic rather the political perspective. The government
           
should expediteestablishing raillinksespecially in theNEstatesand also with neighbouring 
               
countries.Thiswould provideforbetterlinksand relationsin and around theregion.
                       
It should also review the practice of having a separate budget for railways, a practice
               
initiated by the British rule since 1924. Budgetary allocation made to defense, oil sector
                   
are much more than allocations made to railways. By the same token, there should also be
                               
a separate budget for defense. Or is it that IR is more important than defense. These are
       
someaspectswhich thegovernmentshould examine.
                       
To conclude, railways, ports and roads have to become a part of multi modal logistics
                 
in India, for achieving efficiency, cut down time and costs, in transportation of goods from
           
theproducersto theultimateuserboth in Indiaand overseas.
 
High Speed TrainingProject
       
The Japan  International Cooperation  Agency  (JICA) which  undertook  the study  on 
                   
the feasibility of this prestigious project, submitted its report in July 2015. The project
               
was approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, in December 2015, to 
               
be implemented  with  Japanese technical and  financial assistance. The memorandum of
         
understanding  for cooperation  between  India and  Japan  was signed  on  12th December
                   
2015. A new special purpose vehicle with  50  per cent equity  participation  from the
                   
Ministry of Railways and 50 per cent from the state governments of Maharashtra and 
           
Gujaratwasto besetup to implementtheproject.128 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Thesalientfeaturesofthisprojectareasfollows:
               
•Thetotalconstruction costoftheprojectisapproximately ₹70,915 croreincluding land cost.
                     
Project completion  costisapproximately  ₹ 97,636 crore (including price escalation,
             
interestduring construction and importduties).Averageperkmcostofconstruction works
                 
outto be ₹140 crore .      
•  Project implementation time will be approximately seven years from the commencement 
of construction.
•  Japanese official development assistance will be ₹ 79, 165 crore (81 per c ent o f p roject  
cost) for 50 years with 0.1 per cent interest and a1 5-yearm  oratorium.
•  Certain identified packages would have either a Japanese company as prime contractor 
or a Japanese-led JV.
•  Certain identified goods manufactured in Japan would be procured from Japan.
•  Total length of the proposed corridor is 508 km between the Bandra Kurla complex in 
Mumbai and Sabarmati/ Ahmedabad in Gujarat.
•  Sixty-four per cent of the corridor will be constructed on embankment, 25 per cent 
viaduct and 6 per cent tunnel, with a standard gauge.
•  The stretch will cover 12 stations between Mumbai and Sabarmati.
•  The maximum design speed will be 350 kmph with an operating speed of 320 kmph.
•  It will have 10-car trains (750 seats) in the beginning and 16-car trains (1200 seats) 
in the future.
•  Thirty-five trains per day each way will operate by 2023, which will go up to 105 trains 
per day each way in 2053.
•  It will have approximately 36,000 daily users per day (both ways) in 2023, i.e. 13 
million per annum projected, which will go up to 186,000 per day (both ways) or 68 
million per annum by 2053.
REGIONAL CONNECTIVITY THROUGH UDAN
UDAN (Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik), a key element of National Civil Aviation Policy 
2016, is an innovative Regional Connectivity Scheme to supplement air traffic growth 
in regional aviation through a market based mechanism. UDAN provides few seats at 
affordable passenger fares of Rs. 2,500 for an hour-long flight. Under UDAN, 70 airports 
and 128 routes arc connected, and over 100 more unserved airports are to be connected 
in the next rounds of bidding of routes.
The  Government  offers  fiscal  support  through  Viability  Gap  Funding  (VGF)  and 
infrastructural  development of under-utilized airport facilities to incentivize regional air 
traffic. UDAN ensures route profitability to airlines to sustain their operations through 
reducing  operating  costs  by  eliminating  airport  charges  on  UDAN  routes,  subsidizing 
ATF, providing market based subsidy for half of the seats, and guaranteeing three years 
exclusivity  on  routes.  Under  UDAN,  13  Regional  Connectivity  Scheme  airports  have 
been covered in the Eastern and NorthEastern regions, 12 each in Northern and Western 
regions, and 8 in the Southern Region in the first round.INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 129
ADARSH RAILWAY STATION SCHEME
This  scheme  is  targeting  the  modernization  or  upgradation  of  railway  stations.  At 
present, upgradation of stations is being undertaken under Adarsh Station Scheme’. The 
expenditure on development of stations under this Scheme is generally funded under Plan 
Head of Passenger Amenities.
     
     
     
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
 
                 
   
                 
   
 
 
 
CHAPTER11
                 INVESTMENT MODELS    
11.1.TRADITIONALMODELS
 
Having discussed the public sector, reforms and infrastructure an attempt is being made to 
 
bring them all together different investment models, talked about in the previous sections
together and also what c an be other m odels fo r boosting the inv estments in  a n economy  
likeIndia.                    
Contemp orary' macro-e conomi c fra mework   re volved  aroun d  growth   models and 
growth  a function of both savings as well as investments but largely determined by the
overall levels of savin gs, in the earlier c oncept of‘closed’ economy. India in its initial year s,
post-indepen dence, suffer ed from low s avi ngs a nd  it resulted in  low  investments leading to   
low growt h. Indi a w as belie ved to  be cau ght in t he low gro wth cycle and u nable  to bre ak   
through this cycle, kno wn as ‘Hindu  rate of growt h’ (ref er to Chapter on  Inclusive G rowth).
Investm ent was determ  ined  by theoverall levelso fsavin gsa nd secondly th einvestmen twas
largely by the g overn ment. Exc ess spending  o ver and  above savings, re sulted in def icit in   
such economie s.                  
It may  be ap propriate to  define  savings of an  economy  a s the d ifference between  
income and consumption. It could be financial saving (money put in banks, government
securitie s shares, bonds, debe ntures, in surance, pen sion funds, etc., ) bu t other tha n the
cash held. The other is physic al savings w hich could  be assets such as r eal estate, gold and   
commodities.                   
Savings c an  b e ac ros s house hold  se ctor, corporate  sector  and  e ven  throug h  the
departmental undertaking  of the government like Department of Posts, etc. However,
more than 70  per cent  of the savings is account ed for by  the hou sehold sector. It can   
well be known  that India is a ‘hou sehold secto r sav ings driven  eco nomy’.  The  recent  
increase in saving, p ost re for ms, is know n  as a ‘macro-ec onomic  fundamental stren gt h 
ofIndia ’.                    
Investme nt in the m  acro -economi c f ramework i m plies increase in c apital (machi nery)
stock,  known as gross capital formation and after accounting for depreciation (usage of
machine),asnetca pitalfo rmation.Growth  can only beincreased  with cap italformat ion  
               
             INVESTMENT MODELS 131
and thus, the importance of investments in an economy. For example, if Maruti decides to 
set up* a new plant leading into production of more cars, and increase in GDP, it will also 
lead to greater employment and increased income for the people.
What investment model has been followed by India in the past?
Traditionally, there were two models of investment ‘top down investment’ and the other 
as ‘bottom up investment’. The first model is to invest in basic, capital and core industries 
such as crude oil, steel, cement, power generation, etc. This would lead to investment in 
other industries and finally investment in consumer goods which would then drive more 
investment in the core industries. The other focuses more on small and village industries 
and then allowing for their scalability to higher and more capital intensive investment over 
a certain period of time.
India opted for the first investment model post-independence as a part of the second 
five-year  plan  through  the  new  concept  of  investment  through  public  sector  (refer  to 
Chapter on Planning in India).
Pre-reforms  investment  was  through  public  sector  being  set  up  in  the  core  areas, 
through budgetary allocation. The objectives were of increasing significant capacities in 
critical areas, achieve self-reliance and become a driver of industrialization and increase 
overall growth of the economy (refer to Chapter on Industrial Sector). Such investment 
can be known to be basic capital expenditure or as ‘core investment.
What were the limitations of the earlier public sector-led investment?
First, India in the past was characterized by low savings resulting in low-levels of investment 
and thus low growth. Secondly, the government always had a binding resource constraint 
arising out of increased social sector spending, increased subsidy on food grains, fertilizers, 
etc. The government was not able to raise tax revenue in the economy resulting in an ever 
increasing fiscal deficit (refer to Chapter on Government Finances).
Thirdly,  government  is  an  inefficient  spender  in  the  economy  especially  in  capital 
formation as there is time overrun in completion of projects which results in cost overruns 
and higher cost of projects. This results in ‘capital deepening’, increasing capital intensity 
but not allowing for ‘capital efficiency’.
Fourthly, the focus of earlier investment was on ‘creation of capacities’ in different areas 
through ‘available technologies’ in India or technologies from other economies following a 
similar investment model like erstwhile USSR.
Fifthly,  this  model  allowed  for  capital  formation  but  in  a  limited  manner  and  not 
technology and knowledge intensive’ driven investment.
Sixthly, with the lack of focus on profits and with other social responsibilities, public 
sector did not have sufficient resources to augment investment in die economy.
Finally, as a closed and regulated economy there were no alternatives to savings and 
public sector investment.132 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
11.2 NEO-INVESTMENT MODELS
The concept of other investment models is a post-reforms phenomenon, post liberalization 
and with the beginning of transformation of India from a closed to an open economy. The 
economy at present requires digging deeper into investment shifting from quantitative to 
qualitative’, from ‘traditional ro technology and knowledge intensive’ and from ‘capacity 
building to efficient capital investment’.
Private Sector Investment
Opening of the economy allowed for newer avenues of investment especially as private 
investment.  This  helped  in  raising  the  investment  levels  in  the  economy  but  with  a 
difference, of investment earlier being in the public sector domain now to private sector 
investment.  Post-reforms  with  larger  role  of  private  sector,  a  liberalized  environment, 
allowed private sector to operate in a competitive environment and at same time with 
new windows of untapped opportunities, resulting in plough back of profits translating 
into  increased  investment.  This  led  to  ‘supplementary  core  investment’  and  also  a 
‘diversified capital investment’ into newer areas. This model also differed from public 
sector investment which was more ‘capacity building investment’ to an efficient capital 
investment’. This contributes to leveraging of the core investment and diversification of 
the industrial base, capable of lifting the plain of growth, as happened in the case of 
India.
Leveraged Investment
Another investment model being experimented in India, is the concept of public private 
sector partnership (PPP) which is being used for infrastructure projects. Such investment 
can be known as ‘leveraged investment’ (refer Chapter on Infrastructure Development). 
Briefly, this model seeks to take advantage of the strengths of both the government as well 
as the private sector for execution of various infrastructure projects and operations by the 
private sector for a limited period.
In  recent  times,  there  were  a  few  question  marks  on  this  model,  due  to  lack  of 
transparency  and  ambiguities  in  the  model  concessionaire  agreement  (MCA)  executed 
between  the government and  private  players.  There has  to be a  resolution mechanism 
for inter-se disputes arising from private parties and the government. The discontinuance 
Delhi metro airport express line is an example. Such instances can derail the model being 
used in India. Therei sn othing wrong with them odelif the  are asofw  or k,resp onsibility and 
accountability ofboth  thepriva te party  and thegove rnment arec learl y delineated and made
integr alpartof the MC A. INVESTMENT MODELS 133
Similarly, wherever ‘tolls’ are being levied there should be a complete display of the 
details of the project, toll levied, period of levy. Most tolls levied are not ‘rounded off 
resulting in the problem of‘change’ .For example ,instead of toll being say ₹ 22 it could be 
                   
rounded up to ₹ 20.Similarly,tollof₹ 18 can bealtered to ₹ 20.There would beno lossof
                       
revenue to theconcessionaire and thisresult in alotofoperational convenience also forthe
                       
commuters and lesserwaiting timeattollgates.Theotheralternative to thiscould beto retain 
               
theexisting tollsand to introduce ‘smartcards’which would allowforelectronic auto debit
         
through sensorsinstalled atthetollgate.
                           
The other issue around levy of toll is that each toll gate is independent of the other
                     
resulting in the payment at multiplegates during the course of onejourney.Understandably,
                       
this could  be because of different concessionaire for different stretches of the same
                 
journey.Whatisbeing suggested is,forexample,traveling fromDelhito Chandigarh,isit
                             
possible to pay theentire tollat thefirstgateitself rather than atfivedifferent gates ofthe
                 
journey.Theconcessionaires could haveatechnology-enabled tollsharing mechanism.This
                     
would reducewaiting timeattollgatesand effectiveuseofthecreated infrastructure.
Yet another variant to the existing PPP model be bringing and additional ‘P’ standing 
                 
for ‘People’. In this variant, a representative body of people gets involved in the project
                     
right from the conception stage to the project building, monitoring progress thereof and 
                 
also maintenance once the project is completed. This PPPP model can be used for people
                       
centric investment especially in social sector programs. It could be the Accredited Social
                 
Health Activist (ASHA) under primary health care, rural electrification, rural roads, minor
                 
irrigation projects,etc.
 
Foreign DirectInvestment
 
As a result of opening up of the economy, this has allowed for inflow of foreign capital
                         
both  as foreign  direct investment (FDI) and  also  foreign  portfolio  investment (FPI).
           
The government only recently as clubbed all categories of FII investment as FPI. The
                     
investment model now being talked about is FDI which is ‘direct interest of a foreign 
                     
investor in production or rendering of services’ (having control of over 51 per cent shares).
                   
It can also be indirect if the foreign investor has a control of minimum 26 per cent shares
                           
which would give it ‘management control’ (ability to ‘influence’ production, rendering of
             
servicesburnotableto ‘directly run’thebusiness).
           
This model goes beyond the domestic savings and is envisioned as a supplement to 
                   
domestic investment. This allows for scalability' of investment even beyond the savings
                   
of an economy and the model used by China for increasing die overall investment and 
               
becoming the fastest growing economy of the world. It has redefined the boundaries of
                   
investment.134 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Various forms of FDI in India could be the following:
(1)  Wholly owned subsidiary (WOS).
(2)  Wholly owned company incorporated in India (WOC).
(3)  Joint venture (JV) company incorporated in India (JV with an Indian partner with 
management  control  or  controlling  share  of  51  per  cent  to  directly  manage  the 
business).
(4)  JV into an existing line of business with management control.
All  options  are  open  in  India.  The  government  from  time-to-time  notifies  FDI  caps 
for  different  sectors  of  26  per  cent,  49  per  cent,  51  per  cent  and  74  per  cent  and 
100 per cent. The government is considering increasing sectoral caps in many areas to 
attract more FDI into India. Changes in the sectoral caps are notified by the Department 
of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) under Ministry of Industry and Commerce.
FDI  has  two  distinct  advantages—one  of  augmenting  domestic  investment  and  the 
other helps in meeting current account deficit (CAD). For detailed elaboration, refer to 
sections on foreign investment and balance of payments.
Sector Specific Investment
Another investment model being used in India is setting up of special  economic  zones 
(SEZs) to attract investment for increasing  exports  from  India  (refer to Chapter on Export 
Orientation). This investment a dopted by Chinain  seventieshas been  responsible forC hina 
emerg ing asthelarg est exporter ofmanu fac tured goods,aposition  e njoyed by USin thepast. 
Such i nvest mentcan beknow n as‘s ectorspec ificinve stmentm odels’.  
Another  example  of  sector  specific  investment  model  is  setting  up  of  National 
Manufacturing  Investment  Zones  (NMIZs)  which  will  be  integrated  in  industrial 
townships. It will co-locate productions units, logistics, public utilities and residential and 
green environment. The prime objective is to increase the share of manufacturing sector 
output to around 25 per cent as a percent of GDP over the next decade. This model also 
aims  to  double  employment  in  the  manufacturing  sector  in  the  same  period. Tax and 
other fiscal benefits as applicable to SEZs would also be applicable to NMIZ. They are 
now referred as Integrated Manufacturing Clusters (IMC).
Venture Capital
Venture  capital  is  form  of  financing  through  which  the  investors  provide  capitals 
to  startup  companies  and  small  businesses.  This  capital  generally  comes  from  well-off 
investors, investment banks and any other financial institutions. Sometimes it takes in the 
form of technical or managerial expertise as well.INVESTMENT MODELS 135
Cluster Investment
While  sector  specific  investment  can  be  multi-dimensional,  cover  different  industry 
groups,  cluster  investment  can  be  there  to  promote  specific  set  of  industries,  such  as 
handlooms, leather, garments, brassware, electronic goods, etc. These clusters comprises 
of  small-scale  industries which enjoy certain benefits of location, of proximity to raw 
material, markets, availability of skills and infrastructure. These clusters are promoted by 
the government.
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP MODEL (PPP)
PPP means bringing the best from both public and private investments. Few of the Project 
Finance Schemes are as below:
•  BOT (Build-Operate-Transfer)
•  BOOT (Build-Own—Operate-Transfcr)
•  BOO (Build-Own-Operate)
•  BLT (Build-Lease-Transfer)
•  DBFO (Design-Build-Financc-Opcrate)
•  DBOT (Design-Build-Operate-Transfer)
•  DCMF (Design-Construct-Manage-Finance)
Hybrid Annuity Model?
Under this model the government will provide a percentage of the project cost to the 
developer to start work while the remaining investment has to be made by the developer.
Swiss Challenge Model
This model of investment explores a way to award a project to a private player on an 
unsolicited  proposal.  Such  projects  may  not  be  planned  by  the  government  but  are 
considered important given the gaps in physical or social infrastructure that they propose 
to fill, and the innovation and enterprise that private players bring. The government may 
enter into direct negotiations with a private player who submits a proposal.
Viability Gap Funding (VGF)
It means a grant provided to private players to support infrastructure projects of usually 
having long gestation period. Such projects are economically justified but fall short of 
financial  viability.  Through  this  innovative  provision  of  granting  assistance  to  private 
               
players,several projects may become bankable and help to mobilize private investment in 
infrastructure.136 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The Right Model for India
The above are various investment models which have emerged in recent times especially 
in post-reforms and also from experiences of emerging marker economies (EMEs). These 
models are not alternates to each other but are only variants of investment models. At a 
broad level, investment in India has to be driven by private sector and FD1. However, this 
will require a large role of the government in providing policy support’ w ith 'a p artnership 
approach and an enabling environment’ to facilitate natural flow of investment to bring
back India on the high growth trajectory.
The  policy  support  will  require  well-drafted  ‘futuristic  policies’  in  different  areas 
especially in the areas of ‘pricing and tax matters’. These are the areas of grave concerns 
affecting investment in the economy. Pricing should be such to induce investment and also 
at the same time protect the interest of the ultimate consumers. Ar the same rime, it should 
also be ensured that the pricing is competitive. Similarly, there should be ‘certainty’ of 
taxes, unambiguous and provide comfort that they would not be applicable retrospectively, 
unless warranted in exceptional circumstances and that too it should be on a case-to-case 
basis. Policies should be like goal posts, which are firmly entrenched and visible to all.
Partnership  approach  is  not  to  ‘prevent  but  to  allow’  or  finding  a  way  of  getting 
things performed but within the policy framework. It is not short circuiting of laid down 
procedures but looking at them positively. It is about giving speedy clearances through 
single window approach both at the central as well as state government level.
Enabling environment lies in creating the infrastructure around which such investment 
can be induced. ‘Reviewing’ various acts which influence such investments like mining 
and minerals (development and regulations) act, land acquisition and various labour laws 
all of which date back to 1950s. There is a requirement to comprehensively review them 
in totality to make them more relevant to the changed present context.
India is one among the few countries today which is ‘investment starved’ and requiring 
huge  levels  of  both  resource  as  well  as  technology  intensive  investment  and  requires 
concerted efforts on the part of the government to play its role to facilitate both private 
and foreign investment in the country, to reverse the present down turn in India’s growth 
story.
 
             
           
      CHAPTER12
INTEGRATED ENERGY
POLICY (2031-32)
IMPORTANCE
The importance of this policy lies in the fact that for the first time the entire energy sector 
is brought together in one policy and developing a long term vision. Energy is a key 
requirement and as investment is scaled up so do energy needs of an economy. Today even* 
sector needs energy be it agriculture, industrial activities or even service sector. The policy 
gives out energy needs, their sources and the way going forward. Its other importance 
lies in the fact it is bold in accepting realities and the challenges for the government in 
future.
THE POLICY
In terms of the policy, power demand is likely to be a mammoth 8,00,000 MW by 2031- 
32  as against an  existing  capacity  of  2,00,000  MW  (actual  generation is  only  around 
1,50,000 MW), requiring an investment o fo ver₹  2,5 0,000 crorein  thepow ersecto ronly. 
There  hasto  bee xpone ntial increas e in addit ions to thepo werge neratio n capacity.Indiahas 
taken  66 y earsto build its presentcapa city and  itwillhaveto a dd ov er6,0 0,000 MWi n thenext
20 ye ars,ov erm orethan 1 .5 lac MW in each ofth enest 4 fiveyea rpla ns,b eginni ng w ith the 
twelfth fiveyearpla n.    
Besides the huge resources required there are structural issues like, one of the highest 
Aggregate Transmission and Distribution (AT&D) losses of 25 per cent the highest in the 
world. There are other issues like power thefts which along with distribution losses result 
in losses to the State Electricity Boards (SEBs), under pricing, mounting losses of the State 
Electricity Boards and concept of free power.
The Policy has mentioned dependence on coal based thermal energy. ‘Coal’ would the 
'primary source of energy accounting for 60 per cent even by 2031-32 and thermal power 
generation alone accounting for 47 per cent. The proven reserves are not an issue for the 
present, butq ualityis a m atterof con cern.Our pres entcoal reserv esareno ttha twh ich i srequir ed 
inthepow  e rpla nts.  
The other issue around coal is complete monopoly of Government in mining and thus 
the policy favoured reforms in the coal sector opening to private and foreign participation, 
pricing to be market determined so that scarcity value of coal gets reflected and there is INTEGRATED ENERGY POLICY (2031-32) 139
optimization and efficient use. There was a need to step up ‘coal forecasting’ as it is widely 
believed that ‘coal potential’ in India is over 100 years.
The other source to meet the energy requirement is petroleum which would account 
for 25 per cent. But the problem here is that it is also non renewable. Besides there is 
heavy import dependence of presently 70 per cent which is likely to go up to 90 per cent 
by 2030 making India the third largest importer of crude petroleum after US and China. 
This would make the economy extremely vulnerable to global price fluctuations besides 
supply factors in the wake of adverse developments in West Asia.
There is an urgent need to free up pricing of retail petroleum goods in the domestic 
market so that their scarcity value gets reflected. The government should spread awareness 
on the need for energy conservation, increasing energy efficiency and lowering energy 
intensity. There was a need to step up efforts at developing viable alternatives to the 
growing dependence on oil through R & D. The government should set up a National 
Energy Fund by levying a cess of 1 per cent on turnover of all companies in the energy 
sector. Many countries in Europe have already announced a zero dependence on crude 
petroleum in a given time frame. India needs to do the same. Given the volatility in the 
international crude petroleum prices the policy has suggested creating strategic reserves of 
crude petroleum of at least 90 days.
With respect of Hydro power, the policy cautioned on its high cost of power generation 
and should be promoted after evaluating its impact on ecological imbalances, habitation 
etc. In any case the full potential is limited to only 1,50,000 MW about 20 per cent of the 
energy requirement by 2031-32.
Nuclear energy was the source for the future but given the long gestation period in 
commissioning  of  such  plants,  availability  of  nuclear  fuels  from  other  countries  and 
uncertainties  in  inking  nuclear  deals,  one  can  expect  optimistically  any  change  in  the 
energy mix only beyond 2050. But one should also be aware of its high capital intensity 
and high cost of power generated, besides the potential dangers of radiation leakages, 
nuclear waste and their long term impact. It will not be able to meet more than 5 per cent 
of the energy requirements by 2031-32.
There is a lot of focus on renewable sources of energy like fuel wood plantation, bio-gas, 
bio-mass, ethanol as they can meet local agricultural and domestic needs cheaply. Wind 
energy and solar energy are capital intensive with high per unit power cost and would require 
additional resources. But again they would be able to meet only local requirements, their 
promotion is precisely for this reason, besides it will promote local entrepreneurs, create local 
employment and are environment benign. But at the same time their large scale integration 
in the broader energy requirement framework may not be possible for a foreseeable long time 
in the future.
GOVERNMENT INITIATIVES
Planning Commission has been aware of the of this impending need and has begun to 
give as decisive thrust for increasing power generation capacity since the ninth five year 
plan. Each subsequent plan has only scaled up planned expenditure for creation of power 
generation capacities. But unfortunately the targets set out were never achieved. The Ninth 140 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
five year plan could achieve only 47 per cent of the targeted level of power addition. The 
later plans including the eleventh five year plan could not go beyond meeting 50 per cent 
of the targets. The twelfth five year plan is highly ambitious of adding 88,000 MW in the 
next five years.
The Government at its level has shown some urgency by announcing setting up of 
Ultra Mega Power Plants (UMPPs), by the private sector each with a capacity of 4000 
MW.
Realizing the importance of coal as a raw material for thermal power plants, it has 
asked Coal India Limited (CIL), the sole authority to do mining of coal to sign Fuel 
Supply Agreements (FSA) with power plants to ensure steady supply of coal to them.
The Government has also focused on solar energy, besides exploring the prospects of 
shale gas as a potential source in the future.
Recent Initiatives.
The  Government  has  initiated  several  initiatives  and  policies  for  the  development  and 
improvement of power sector recently. Some of the new initiatives are as follows:-
(i)  Prepared state specific action plans for ‘24 x 7 Power for All’ covering adequacy of 
generation, transmission capacity and distribution system.
(ii)  Notified revised Tariff Policy with a focus on ‘4 Es’ i.e. Electricity for all, Efficiency to 
ensure  affordable  tariffs,  Environment  for  a  sustainable  future,  Ease  of  doing 
business to attract investments and ensure financial viability.
(iii)  Launched  Deendayal  Upadhyaya  Gram  Jyoti  Yojana  (DDUGJY)  for  rural  areas: 
The scheme provides for (a) separation of agriculture and non-agriculture feeders; (b) 
strengthening  and  augmentation  of  sub-transmission  and  distribution  infrastructure 
in rural areas including metering at distribution transformers, feeders and consumers 
end; and (c) rural electrification.
(iv)  Launched  Integrated  Power  Development  Scheme  (IPDS)  for  urban  areas:  The 
scheme provides for (a) strengthening of sub-transmission and distribution networks 
in urban areas; (b) metering of distribution transformers/feeders/consumers in urban 
areas; and (c) IT enablement of distribution sector and strengthening of distribution 
network.
(v)  Operationalised  Power  System  Development  Fund  (PSDF):  This  fund  shall  be 
utilized for the project proposed by distribution utilities for (a) creating necessary 
transmission system of strategic importance; (b) installation of shunt capacitors etc. 
for improvement of voltage profile in the grid; (c) installation of standard and special 
protection  schemes;  and  (d)  Renovation  and  Modernisation  of  transmission  and 
distribution systems for relieving congestion; etc.
(vi)  Launched Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY): The scheme has been launched 
for operational and financial turnaround of Discoms.
(vii) Measures initiated for reducing the generation cost of coal based power projects:
(a)  Increasing supply of domestic coal;
(b) Coal usage flexibility
(c)  Rationalisation of coal linkagesINTEGRATED ENERGY POLICY (2031-32) 141
viii)  Standard  Bidding  Documents  (SBDs)  have  been  developed  for  carrying  out 
competitive bidding for procurement of power and transmission services.
xi)  Guidelines  and  Model  Bidding  documents  on  “short  term  Procurement  of  power 
by distribution licensees through tariff based bidding process” and “Procurement of 
electricity for medium term from power stations set up on Finance, own and operate 
(FOO) basis”.
(x)  Approved  an  innovative  mechanism  for  utilisation  of  stranded  gas  based  capacity 
by  making  available  Re-gasified  Liquefied  Natural  Gas  (RLNG)  along  with 
interventions by all stakeholders, including support from PSDF through a transparent 
and efficient manner.
STRUCTURAL BOTTLENECKS
Thermal  power  generation,  as  mentioned  earlier,  has  a  major  structural  problem.  The 
relatively larger role of the State governments through their respective State Electricity 
Boards (SEBs) where generation, transmission and distribution are all bundled together. 
Power  sector  needs  unbundling  these  as  separate,  distinct  and  independent  activities. 
There also a need to have market related pricing and a strict power discipline. Power sector 
has to be kept at arm’s length distance from both the State and Central government.
Coal mining has to be opened up to private and even foreign investors to get the state 
of the art technology, improving mining skills besides moving into a market determined 
pricing for coal.
Increasing dependence on imported crude oil, needs to be reduced. Amongst the larger 
economies of US,C  hina a nd others,In diais the  mo stvuln erable to s upply shocks and p rice
volati lity.What makes itwor se istheir di rectt ransm ission on domesticprices. 
Another worrisome factor for India is the low level of awareness of energy conservation 
and  preservation  resulting  in  their  excessive  use  only  compounding  the  problem  of 
growing dependence.
The energy sector has to be viewed seriously by the Government. As and when growth 
accelerates,  energy  constraints  would  become  binding.  On  the  whole  the  policy  has 
sounded pessimistic but then that is the ground reality of the seriousness of the energy 
sector and would require the government to introspect of the possible solutions to the 
likely ‘energy crisis’ of the future.
Clearly the major issue in the energy sector is the mounting power requirements, coal as the primary 
source of energy, primarily thermal power generation, excessive dependence on imported crude 
petroleum, absence of energy security and above all leaving the government with little options in the 
short term.   

CHAPTER13
GOVERNMENT FINANCES
13.1 FISCAL POLICY IN INDIA
The government does not perform any business so it cannot earn money to spend. Hence, 
the  government  has to  raise  the money from  the  economy to  enable it to spend that 
money in terms of requirements and national priorities. The government raises money 
primarily through ‘taxes’ and the spending known as ‘public expenditure’. A policy which 
iffects either the manner in which the government raises resource or spends is known as 
fiscal policy’. The objectives of any fiscal policy of a country' are as follows:
1)To ensur e tha t th e expenditur e in an economy is in terms  of  national  priorities,  to 
boost growth for the welfare of the people.
         
2)Expenditurebeing incurred should notlead to apricerisesituation.
               
3)There should be efficiency in the way of resources that are raised and spent.
             
4)Effortsareto bemadeto avoid wastefulexpenditurein theeconomy.
           
5)Resources being raised by the government through taxes should not create burden on 
 
thecommon man.
       
6)Ta xation should be‘ just and he lpfulin reduci ng  inco meineq ua litie s.
7)Thepolicy should aimforoverallimprovementof the welfareoftheeconomy.
                       
India, there is no fiscal policy by the name; however, the objectives of those are being 
               
achieved byt heannualfinancialstatementpopularlyknown astheb udgetwhichistablledin the
                   
parliam ent .Hence,budgetisnotmerelythedetailsofexpend itureandtaxesbutisalsoapolicy 
                           
     
t oolto sub-serv eobjecti ves of afi scalpolicy.T hebudge t,thus, morethan abalance sheetof 
       
governmentreceiptsandexpenditurespresentedtotheparliament.
13.2 PUBLIC EXPENDITURE OF GOVERNMENT
Publi cexpenditure iss pending  by  thece ntralgov ernment.Till 2016 -17,Gover nmentdefined  
               
broadly,therearetwo  kindsofexpenditure—oneisplan  expenditure,which isexpenditureear
                     
marked  forinvestment in  different areas,in  thefive-year plans forvarious sectors ofthe
                         
economy.Thesecould beeithercapital orrevenue in nature.Capital expenditure represents
               
creation ofassetsin an economy and isthusdesirableforgrowth.144 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
For example, money spent for setting up power plant is a capital expenditure. Revenue 
expenditure is recurring in nature, for maintenance, etc.
The other is the non-plan expenditure which is an expenditure not covered in the five- 
year plan but yet has to be incurred and could again be either revenue or capital. In India, 
non-plan expenditure is 70 per cent of the total expenditure whereas plan expenditure is 
only 30 per cent. The highest expenditure is non-plan revenue expenditure accounting for 
63 per cent of total expenditure.
What are the components of non-plan revenue expenditure? The first is the interest 
payments  (servicing  of  the  loans  taken  by  the  central  government  both  internal  and 
external) accounting for over 25 per cent of the total expenditure. Secondly, subsidies 
(food, fertilizers and retail petroleum goods). Thirdly establishment expenses of defense. 
Fourthly, loans to state govemments/UT, establishment expenses of central government, 
pension  to  defence/central  government  retired  personnel.  Expenditure  on  these  heads 
would account for over 90 per cent of non-plan revenue expenditure. These expenses are 
also known as consumption of the government as no assets are created.
RECEIPTS BY THE GOVERNMENT
The expenditure in an economy is met out of receipts by the government through various 
sources. The receipts could be revenue (which do not create any interest liability for the 
government, regularity in their receipts and not representing borrowings) and the other 
as capital (cither creating a liability for the government or less certain of their receipt or 
borrowings). Of the total receipts, 90 per cent is revenue and 10 per cent is capital receipts. 
The primary source of revenue receipts is tax revenue (84 per cent of total receipts). Taxes 
could be either direct or indirect.
How to distinguish direct tax from indirect tax? Direct tax is a tax where the subject on 
whom the tax has been levied is identifiable, who has to pay the tax and the tax burden cannot 
be shifted. Examples can be income tax, corporate taxes, wealth tax, etc. In case if the subject 
is not identifiable or if the burden can be shifted it is an indirect tax. Common examples 
are excise duty (payable by companies on manufacturing activities), customs duty (duty on 
import of goods), service tax (tax on services being rendered by service providers), etc.
Fifty-five per cent of the tax revenue arrives through direct taxes while 45 per cent of 
the revenue is from indirect taxes. The base on which the tax is applied for indirect taxes 
could either be on value (ad valorem) or specific on a particular attribute (length of staples 
in cotton). India primarily follows an ad valorem indirect tax structure.
Certain taxes are levied by the central government and at the same time it is also 
collected by the central government (income tax, customs duty, excise duty and service 
tax), certain taxes levied by the central government bur collected by the state governments 
(central sales tax levied on inter-state movement of goods). A few other taxes are levied and 
collected by the respective state governments (sales rax, octroi, municipal taxes, road tax, 
entertainment tax and agriculture tax).
The basis of sharing the rax revenue between the centres and the states are decided by 
the  finance  commission.  The  thirteenth  finance  commission  under  the  chairmanship  of 
Shri Vijay Kelkar has since submitted its report and is effective from 2010 to 2015.GOVERNMENT FINANCES 145
There are two additional taxes—one is the surcharge which is imposed for additional 
revenue considerations by imposing an additional percentage on the absolute amount of 
tax payable. Suppose surcharge on at ax is5  perce ntan d thetax  payableis₹ 10 0  then thetotal 
       
tax liability including surchargewould be ₹105.
                         
The other is cess which is similar in application as the surcharge except that the amount
                   
collected by way of cess is meant solely for specific funding/cause like education cess, the
     
amountcollected would go forfunding ofeducation only.
                 
Components of revenue receipts other than  taxes are dividends received  by  the
                       
government from public sector, payment of interest by the state governments etc. Similarly,
                       
capital receipts of the government comprises of recoveries of loan, grants, assistance
   
received by thegovernmentetc.
     
WAYSANDMEANSADVANCES
                   
An interesting characteristic of expenditure and the receipts of an economy is that, all the
                         
receipts come with a lag over a period of time like direct taxes would be by the end of each 
         
quarterwhilecommitted expenditureasto beincurred immediately.
                   
That is, for example, if there is a temporary mismatch between governments receipts
                 
and  expenditure in  a financial year and  to  meet this mismatch  the Reserve Bank  of
               
India provides temporary  overdraft to  the government through  the ‘ways and  means
advances’.
                         
This overdraft facility is for a time period of 90 days and the amount of overdraft
           
is₹20,00 0croresdurin gApril toSeptemberan d₹60 00croresduri ngOctober toMarch.
     
NATUREOFGOVERNMENTBUDGET
                     
Thus, so far we have discussed the expenditure and receipts. What happens if expenditure
                     
exceeds receipts? It would result in a deficit or otherwise in a surplus and if both match 
then balanced.
                     
What is good for an economy—a deficit, surplus or a balanced budget? To answer this
                     
question, a few aspects should be understood. There is a difference between personal and 
               
government budget and that being in a personal budget, spending is strictly in accordance
                 
with  income. However, in  a government budget, it is important to  understand  that
                     
expenditure is seen first and the reason for receipt is because of the need for spending in 
                   
theeconomy.Thatis,agovernmentbudgetby itsvery structureisdeficit-oriented.
                 
Only in an economy where receipts surpass spending can there be a surplus or the
       
government scales-down spending to match the receipts. This could drag down growth 
               
as lesser expenditure is taking place. More so in India, given the inflexibility to bring 
       
down  non-plan  expenditure, any  reduction  in  expenditure would  imply  lesser capital
     
expenditureand expenditureon socialsector.
                             
A balanced budget is good only if the budget is seen as a balance sheet or a statement of
                       
accounts of the government of India. A better thing can be a balanced budget multiplier
                   
which is an incremental increase in expenditure in any given year is met out of incremental
     
increasein receiptsin agiven year.146 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
NATURE OF DEFICITS
13.6
Different components of expenditure and receipts are explained for a better understanding 
of deficits in the budget.
Receipts R sin crores Expenditure R s in 
crores
1. Revenue receipts 90,000 4. Non-plan revenue expenditure  90,000 
a) (interest payment) (50,000)
2. Capital receipts  (10,000) 5. Non-plan capital expenditure 25,000
(of which market 
borrowings of   
the government)
6. Plan capital expenditure 50,000
7. Plan revenue expenditure 10,000
3. Total receipts 1,00,000 8. Total revenue expenditure 1,00,000
(1+2) (4 + 7)
9.  Total capital expenditure (5 + 6)  75,000
10.  Total expenditure (8 + 9)  1,75,000
From the above example, we acquire to know various kinds of deficit.
(1)  Budgetary deficit is total receipts (3) less total expenditure (10) ₹ 75,000 crores).
(2)  Fiscal deficit is total receipts (but excluding government market borrowings) less total 
 
expenditure(₹85,000 crores).
                       
(3) Revenuedeficitisrevenuereceipts(1)lessrevenueexpenditure(8)(₹10,000 crores).
                       
(4) Primary deficit is fiscal deficit less interest payments (4a) (₹35,000 crores) (A negative
       
sign beforethedeficitwould indicatesurplus).
                   
Since economies have begun targeting the fiscal deficit, usage of budgetary deficit has
             
been  discontinued. Of the remaining  three, fiscal, revenue and  primary  which  can  be
                       
said to being potentially most dangerous? ‘It is not the fiscal but the revenue deficit. As
               
revenuedeficitimpliesborrowing money formeeting theconsumption ofthe government and 
                       
notto  createassets .Bo rrowingsper searenotbad aslong asassetsgetcreated and theassetscan 
servicethebo rrowing s.                    
In India, 70  per ce nt of the fi scal d efic it is  accounted fo r by re venue def icit. The 
prima ry defi cit , on  the  ot her han d, tests fo r th e sensitivit y o f in terest  payments towards
fiscal deficitorhowfarthe interestpayments arere sponsib le forthefisca ld eficit.    
 A high p rimary def icit would mea n that fisca l d eficit is on account of  factors o ther  than  
the interes t paym en ts and str uct ural in  nature. A  low pri mar y de ficit indicates that the
high fiscal def icitison accountofinter estp ayment s,w hich isthec asein In dia .
 Hence we st arted b y  saying that th e nature o f governmen t bu dget is  deficit-ori ented  
but too m  uc h of deficit is also b ad as it contributes to inflation. It is difficult to say as what
could  bethe ‘safe* level of fis caldeficit.               
A basic  thumb  rul e is it s hould be und er 3  per  cent of GD P with a bala nced budget 
multiplier. There are various compulsions of the government which  make expenditureGOVERNMENT FINANCES 147
control  difficult  especially  given  their  responsibilities  for  socio-welfarc  schemes, 
infrastructure development, etc.
Still the government in line with the above had set definite time frame for reducing 
the fiscal and revenue deficit under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management 
Act (FRBMA) for gradual reduction of revenue deficit by 0.5 per cent every year to be 
brought down to zero by 2007-2008. In respect of fiscal deficit the aim was to reduce it 
by 0.3 per cent every year beginning from 2004 to 2005. Clearly, the targets have not been 
achieved.
The global crisis initiated during 2007 required a fiscal stimulus package to ensure that 
the Indian economy does not slip into a recession and a conscious decision taken to relax 
the FRBMA provisions until the situation is improved.
If the expenditure needs are inflexible and deficits have to be checked the only way is 
to augment the receipts and this is where the government has focused through tax reforms 
with the taxes being a major source of receipts for the government as it offered great 
potential. There is a need to increase the tax to GDP ratio which is presently around 10 
per cent especially given the growth of the economy there should be proportionately larger 
increase in tax revenue.
13.7 TAX REFORMS—INDIRECT TAXES
It  was  mentioned  previously  that  indirect  taxes  contribute  about  45  per  cent  of  the 
tax revenue. A major source of indirect taxes is excise duty which is payable on value 
of manufacturing activities in the economy. Excise duty like other indirect taxes by its 
inherent structure is regressive in nature.
For example,t hee xcisedu ty on saltis1 0 p ercento n afa ctory  priceof ₹10 w  hi ch  meansthe
                               
retailpriceforapacketofsaltis₹11 with an exciseof ₹1 perpacketgoing to thegovernment.
                 
Thepriceof ₹11 isbeing paid by aperson who isearning ₹5000 permonth and also even by 
               
aperson whoseearning is₹1,00,000 permonth.Thetax burden ishigheron thepeoplewith 
                     
lowerincomeand thatiswhatismeantby regressive.
Secondly, multiple excise structure with  multiple rates giving  rise to  different
               
interpretation on tax payable giving scope for evasion, litigations and revenue loss to the
               
government.
The third issue in excise is the cascading effect of taxes. For example, Maruti buys tyres
                         
from MRF company. The purchase price of tyres from MRF would have a component
                         
of excise duty, which becomes the input price for Maruti and excise duty has to be paid 
                       
on the frill value of car. This is known as the cascading effect, that is, taxes increase the
                             
manufacturing costand getagain taxed.
   
The government has tried to address the issue by reducing the slabs of excise duty only 
                   
and lowerexciseduty on essentialsormassgoodsto minimizetheregressivecharacter.With 
                   
regard to the cascading effect, the best way to prevent it is by introducing value added tax 
               
VAT) which is a tax on the value additions at each stage of production rather than on the
                     
finished goods. Provided the federal structure both centre and state government VAT would 
               
haveto beatboth levels.
     148 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
An initiation was made with the government by first introducing the modified value 
added tax (MODVAT) scheme which allowed partial adjustment of duties on capital goods 
purchased, however, it was restrictive in nature. The government replaced MODVAT with 
a wider scheme of input credit for the excise duties inputs (raw materials, capital goods 
and services) purchased for direct use in production known as central value added tax 
(CENVAT) at the central level during 2004.
    A majorreform hasbee n at thestat elev elwi th the replacem  entofsalest ax  with  state
VAT. The credit for this goes to Shri. Asim Das Gupta the then Finance Minister, West 
Bengal and can be hailed as a landmark in tax reforms.
‘Why’ it is a major reform? First to make all the state governments to agree for the 
replacement of sales tax with a state VAT. The sales tax regime was very complicated with 
different sales tax rates for same products in different states. A state VAT required one 
product one tax rate’ across all states and to drive a consensus for this was herculean effort 
as some states would stand to gain and others would tend to lose.
If in a particular state sales tax was a high of say 24 per cent but the consensus under 
a state VAT was only 12.5 per cent for that good clearly there would be revenue loss for 
that state government.
State VAT made effective from 1 April 2005 has the following salient features:
(1)  State VAT is not a new tax but only a change in the way of collecting tax from the 
final stage to the value addition stage.
(2)  This allows for set-off of duties from the tax payable but against original invoices/ 
           
challansofthetax paid on theinputspurchased.
                     
(3) There would be a uniform 4 per cent state VAT on 270 mass-consumed goods across
                     
all states, a uniform VAT of 12.5 per cent on 280 goods and 1 per cent on gold and 
       
silverornamentsacrossallstates.
                           
(4) Thosewith aturnoverof₹5 lakh and lesswould notbeliableforany VAT,from₹5
                     
to50lakh a compositetax butwith no set-off.VATispayableforturnoverexceeding
₹ 50 lakhs
The state VAT has helped in checking tax evasion by introducing a ‘bill culture, transparency 
in tax administration and collection, increased revenue for the state government. Further, 
as part of deeper reforms, the government is proposing to integrate taxing of goods and 
services at differential rate separately into one tax with one tax rate as goods and services 
tax (GST) with both the c entre a nd states ta xing concurrency as the  cen tral go vernment  
GST (CGGST) and the state government GST (SGGST).
This would considerably simplify the indirect tax regime, enlarge the tax base for larger 
resource generation and thus lower GST rate resulting in lower prices does of goods and 
services but also in ensuring the revenue  for the government  not to suffer ,the government 
proposes to implementt heG STre gimeas so on asthe reisb roa d based consensuswith  thestates 
and te chnology putin plac e.Reforms in indire cttaxesarec omme ndab leand thegov ernment’ 
sproposal ofp ropelling  to  GSTwould placeIn diawith an e fficien t indirecttax regim  eatpar 
with otherm  a ture economies oftheW  est.      149
GOVERNMENT FINANCES
TAX REFORMS—DIRECT TAXES
13.8
Direct taxes as seen earlier contribute 55 per cent of the tax revenue and it is a better 
way of taxation as it is progressive in nature and based on ‘ability to pay’, higher the 
income, progressively, more the tax rate leading to greater revenue with least burden on 
the masses or those with low income. Direct taxes particularly income tax is progressive 
and in contrast to other taxes which are regressive in nature.
The progressivity of income taxes in periods of inflation pushes people up the tax 
bracket, as pay packets get inflated due to inflation resulting in higher taxes paid and 
reduced spending by the individuals. On one hand, the coffers of the government fills up 
because of people moving up the tax bracket and on the other there is a reduced spending. 
This phenomenon is known as ‘Fiscal drag’.
How many people do you think are tax payers in the economy?
At present, 4.0 per cent are tax payers in the Indian economy, about 37 million in a 
population of over one billion people. This number is low especially considering the fact that 
India in its growing economy, with increased income, rising middle class, the affluent class 
and large number joining the elite billionaire club. In comparison, the number of tax payers 
has only increased by 11 per cent.
What are the ways through which tax payers and tax revenue can be increased? There 
could be three ways through which it can be increased and are as follows:
Increase in the direct tax rates. 
1)
2) Increase in the tax base. 
3) Enforce tax compliance.
Increase in Tax Rate
Any increase in tax rate is seen negatively and resented by the people. There is also a 
relationship between the direct tax rate and revenue generated. Starting from a low tax 
rate and gradually increasing it, is positively related and increases tax revenue. However, 
beyond  a  level,  any  increase  in  tax rates  becomes  counter-productive  as  it  lowers tax 
revenue rather than in increasing it. This is popularly known as the ‘Laffer curve’.
An economy being on the Laffer curve implies that any increase in tax rates would 
lower the tax revenue and on the contrary lowering of tax rate would lead to increased 
revenue for the government. It is widely believed that India is on the Laffer curve with 
limited prospects of raising taxes.
This  is  because  high  tax  rates  lead  to  tax  evasion,  non-disclosure  of  income  and 
generation of black money (taxes not paid). All efforts are made to minimize the incidence 
of taxes legally and illegally. It serves as a disincentive in the economy leading to lowering 
of income and the output. Hence, raising tax rates is not an option available in India.
Increase in Tax Base
Tax base refers to that threshold level of income on which taxes become applicable. India 
has an exemption level,th atis, ifi nco meisle sst han ₹  2.5 lakh perannum taxesar enot      150 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
payable. So one way could be to lower the exemption level so that more people are drawn 
in the tax net and thereby an increase in tax payers and tax revenue.
At present, the exemption level is very low given the present inflation. Besides the 
inflation does not factor in cost of education, transport and property prices all of which 
have increased manifold in recent times creating hardships and making it difficult for the 
middle class to make both the ends meet. Lowering the exemption would further burden 
the middle class and more so by this way it may be possible to increase the ‘number of tax 
payers’ but ‘not necessarily tax revenue’ as many would be marginal tax payers.
The other way to increase the tax base is to bring in untaxed sectors under the tax net. 
All sectors with the possible exception of the agricultural sector are already under the tax 
net. Agriculture being a state subject can be taxed only by the state government and not 
by the central government. Thus, like increasing tax rate, even increasing tax base is not a 
feasible option for raising direct tax revenue in India.
Ensuring Tax Compliance
This is to ask the question that, is every person who ought to pay taxes is paying his/her 
taxes in terms of existing laws and the second are the people who are not paying should 
actually be paying taxes. This is what is meant by tax compliance. The government has 
made an initiation by making the income tax return form user friendly and easy to fill up 
by an individual and it is known as ‘Saral’.
Th e proble m in Indi a  is tha t o f tax complianc e with lot of leakages, large-scale tax 
evasion and black money. It is estimated that over 40 per cent of GDP is black money 
which is circulating in the economy on which no taxes are paid.
GOODS AND SERVICES TAX: PROGRESSIVE TAX REGIME
India’s biggest tax reform since independence ,Goods and Services Tax (GST) came into 
force from the midnight of 1st July 2017 after 17 tumultuous years of debate, unifying 
more than a dozen central and state levies.
GST is a win-win situation fort hee ntirec ountry.It b ringsbe nefitsto  allth esta keholdersof 
ind ustry,gov ernmentand  theconsu mer.Itwill lo wert hecost ofgo odsa nd  service s,giveaboost 
to th e econom  y and  maketheproducts  and  servicesg lobally comp etitive.GSTaimsto  make 
India acommo n ma rk et with common  tax rates and procedure s and remove t heeconomic 
bar riersthusp aving th eway  foran inte grated e conomy atthenationallev el.    
By subsuming most of the Central and State taxes into a single tax and by allowing 
a set-off of prior-stage taxes for the transactions across the entire value chain, it would 
mitigate the ill effects of cascading, improve competitiveness and improve liquidity of the 
businesses.
GST is a destination based tax. It follows a multi-stage collection mechanism. In this, 
tax is collected at every stage and the credit of tax paid at the previous stage is available as a 
set off at the next stage of transaction. This shifts the tax incidence near to the consumer and 
benefits the industry through better cash flows and better working capital management.
1. GST is largely technology driven. It will reduce the human interface to a great 
extent and this would lead to speedy decisions.GOVERNMENT FINANCES 151
2. GST will give a major boost to the ‘Make in India initiative of the Government 
of  India  by  making  goods  and  services  produced  in  India  competitive  in  the 
National as well as International market. Also all imported goods will be charged 
integrated tax (IGST) which is equivalent to Central GST + State GST. This will 
bring equality with taxation on local products.
3. Under the GST regime, exports will be zero-rated in entirety unlike the present 
system where refund of some taxes may not take place due to fragmented nature 
of indirect taxes between the Centre and the States. This will boost Indian exports 
in  the  international  market  thus  improving  the  balance  of  payments  position. 
Exporters with clean track record will be rewarded by getting immediate refund 
of 90% of their claims arising on account of exports, within seven days.
4. GST is expected to bring buoyancy to the Government Revenue by widening the 
tax base and improving the taxpayer compliance. GST is likely improve India’s 
ranking in the Ease of Doing Business Index and is estimated to increase the 
GDP growth by 1.5 to 2%.
GST will bring more transparency to indirect tax laws. Since the whole supply 
5.
chain will be taxed at every stage with credit of taxes paid at the previous stage 
being available for set off at the next stage of supply, the economics and tax value 
of supplies will be easily distinguishable. This will help the industry to take credit 
and theg overnmentt o verify theco rrectnessof taxe spaid  and the cons umerto kn ow
theex acta moun toftaxe sp aid.  
6. The taxpayers would not be required to maintain records and show compliance 
with a myriad of indirect tax laws of the Central Government and the State
Governments like Central Excise, Service Tax, VAT, Central Sales Tax, Octroi, 
Entry  Tax,  Luxury  Tax,  Entertainment  Tax,  etc.  lhey  would  only  need  to 
maintain records and show compliance in respect of Central Goods and Sendees 
Tax Act and State (or Union Territory) Goods and Services Tax Act for all intra­
State supplies (which are almost identical laws) and with Integrated Goods and 
Services Tax for all inter-State supplies (which also has most of its basic features 
derived from the CGST and the SGST Act).
Salient Features of GST
The salient features of GST are as under:
(i)  The  GST  would  be  applicable  on  the  supply  of  goods  or  services  as  against  the 
present concept of tax on the manufacture or sale of goods or provision of services. 
It  would  be  a  destination  based  consumption  tax.  This  means  that  tax  would 
accrue to the State or the Union Territory where the consumption takes place. It 
would be a dual GST with the Centre and States simultaneously levying tax on 
a common tax base. The GST to be levied by the Centre on intra-State supply of 
goods or services would be called the Central tax (CGST) and that to be levied by 
the States including Union territories with legislature/Union Territories without152 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
legislature would be called the State tax (SGST)/ Union territory tax (UTGST 
respectively.
(ii) The  GST  would  apply  to  all  goods  other  than  alcoholic  liquor  for  human 
consumption  and  five  petroleum  products,  viz.  petroleum  crude,  motor  spirit 
(petrol), high speed diesel, natural gas and aviation turbine fuel. It would apply to 
all services barring a few to be specified. The GST would replace the  following taxes 
currently levied and collected by the Centre:
a.  Central Excise Duty
b.  Duties of Excise (Medicinal and Toilet Preparations)
c.  Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance)
d. Additional Duties of Excise (Textiles and Textile Products)
e. Additional Duties of Customs (commonly known as CVD)
f.
Special Additional Duty of Customs (SAD)
g.
Service Tax
h.
Central Surcharges and Cesses so far as they relate to supply of goods and 
services
(hi) State taxes that would be subsumed under the GST are:
a.  State VAT
b.  Central Sales Tax
c. Luxury Tax
 d. Entry Tax (all forms) 
e. Entertainment and Amusement Tax (except when levied by the local bodies)
f. Taxes on advertisements
g. Purchase Tax
 h. Taxes on lotteries, betting and gambling 
i. State Surcharges and Cesses so far as they relate to supply of goods and services 
(iv) The list of exempted goods and services would be common for the Centre and the 
States.
(v) An Integrated tax (IGST) would be levied and collected by the Centre on inter­
State supply of goods and services. Accounts would be settled periodically between 
the  Centre  and  the  States  to  ensure  that  the  SGST/UTGST  portion  of  IGST 
is transferred to the destination State where the goods or services are eventually 
consumed.
(vi) Use of Input Tax Credit: Taxpayers shall be allowed to take credit of taxes paid on 
inputs (input tax credit) and utilize the same for payment of output tax. However, 
no  input  tax  credit  on  account  of  CGST  shall  be  utilized  towards  payment  of 
SGST/UTGST  and  vice  versa.  The  credit  of  IGST  would  be  permitted  to  be 
utilized for payment of IGST, CGST and SGST/UTGST in that order.153
GOVERNMENT FINANCES
(vii) Exports and Supplies to SEZ shall be treated as zero-rated supplies. The exporter 
shall have an option to either pay output tax and claim its refund or export under 
bond without tax and claim refund of Input lax Credit.
(viii) Import of Goods and Services would be treated as inter-State supplies and would 
be subject to IGST in addition to the applicable customs duties. The IGST paid 
shall be available as ITC for further transactions.
GST Council
The mechanism of GST Council would ensure harmonization on different aspects of GST 
between the Centre and the States as well as among States. It has been specifically provided 
that the GST Council, in its discharge of various functions, shall be guided by the need 
for a harmonized structure of GST and for the development of a harmonized national 
market for goods and services. The GST Council shall establish a mechanism to adjudicate 
disputes arising out of its recommendation or implementation thereof.
National Anti-profiteering Authority
National  Anti-profiteering  Authority  under  GST  will  be  the  apex  body,  which  is 
mandated to ensure that the benefits of the reduction in GST rates on goods or services are 
passed on to the ultimate consumers by way of a reduction in prices. The National Anti­
profiteering Authority (NAA) will be headed by a senior officer of the level of Secretary to 
the Government of India with four Technical Members from the Centre and/or the States.
NAA aims at comforting consumers that Government is fully committed to taking all 
possible steps to make sure the benefits of implementation of GST in terms of lower prices of 
the goods and services reach them. The “anti-profiteering” measures are enshrined in th e  
GST law,which pro videsan institut ionalmecha nismto m  ake sure  tha tth efullben ef itsof 
inputtax c reditsand reduced  GST rateso n thesupp ly ofg oo dsorser vices flow to the  
cons umers.Thisi nstitutionalframework  co mprise s theNAA,aStanding  Committee,
Screening C ommitteesin e very Sta teand theD irectora te GeneralofS afegu ardsin t he
Ce ntralB oa rd ofExci se&Customs(CBEC).
NAA work for affected consumers who feel the benefit of proportionate reduction 
in prices is not being passed on when they purchase any goods or services may apply for 
relief to the Screening Committee in the particular State. However, in case the incident of 
profiteering relates to an item of mass impact with ‘All India ramification, the application 
may be directly made to the Standing Committee.
Input tax credit
Taxpayer is allowed to take credit of taxes paid on inputs (input tax credit), as self-assessed, 
in his return. Taxpayer can take credit of taxes paid on all goods and services, other than 
a few items in the negative list, and utilize the same for payment of output tax. Credit 
of taxes paid on inputs can be taken where the inputs are used for business purposes or 154 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
for making taxable supplies. Full input tax credit shall be allowed on capital goods on its 
receipt as against the current Central Government and many State Government practice 
of staggering the credit in more than one installment.
Unutilized  input  tax  credit  can  be  carried  forward.  The  facility  of  distribution  of 
input tax credit for services amongst group companies has been provided for through the 
mechanism of Input Service Distributor (ISD).
IT Preparedness
Putting in place a robust IT network is an absolute must for implementation of GST. A 
Special Purpose Vehicle called the GSTN has been set up to cater to the needs of GST. 
The  GSTN  shall  provide  a  shared  IT  infrastructure  and  services  to  Central  and  State 
Governments, taxpayers and other stakeholders for implementation of GST. The functions 
of the GSTN would, inter alia, include: (i) facilitating registration; (ii) forwarding the 
returns to Central and State authorities; (iii) computation and settlement of IGST; (iv) 
matching of tax payment details with banking network; (v) providing various MIS reports 
to  the  Central  and  the  State  Governments  based  on  the  taxpayer  return  information: 
(vi) providing analysis of taxpayers’ profile; and (vii) running the matching engine for 
matching, reversal and reclaim of input tax credit.
The GSTN will also make available standard software for small traders to keep their 
accounts in that, so that straight away it can be uploaded as their monthly returns on 
GSTN website. This will make compliance easier for small traders.
BLACK MONEY
13.10
Black money has nothing to do with the colour except to convey that it is necessarily an 
evil. It is an unaccounted income, earned through illegal channels and put to unproductive 
anti-national use and conspicuous consumption. Checking black money and tax evasion 
are the critical aspects of tax compliance.
Black  money  gets  generated  when  big  transactions  are  performed  in  cash,  source 
and end use not possible to ascertain  .For example ,a friend  gives  you cash of  ₹ 1000. 
Technically, iti sb lackm oney,ma ybe not soin yo urc aseb ecaus etheamo unt issmall. Ho wever, 
saysomeb ody gives₹10l akhin c as hitis de finite lyb la ckmone y.  
In other way, all transactions where payments have to be made or received beyond 
                       
alevelofsay ₹10,000 and aboveifdonein cash isblack money.Orstilldifferently,transactions
                 
performed otherthan by way ofcheques,drafts,creditcards,debitcards,directtransfers of
         
money in bank accountswould beblack money.
               
Ifyou deposit₹10 lakh in cash in yourbank accountitisblack money (unlessand untilif
                               
     
youshowthe sourcefromwhereyougotit).Ifyourfathersendsyouachequeofthesameamount
                         
       
andyoudeposititinyourbankaccountitisa‘whitetransaction .Thus,transactions performed
           
           
otherthanthroughbanksandpostofficeswouldgenerateblackmoney.GOVERNMENT FINANCES 155
Why  does  black  money  ger  generated?  The  primary  reason  for  the  black  money 
generation  is  high  tax  rates,  complex  tax  laws  and  provisions,  strict  controls  on 
transactions, large amount of cash dealing, people not having bank accounts, land and 
property deals in cash, need for money to get jobs performed through various government 
departments,  donations  required  for  admission  in  schools  and  colleges,  meeting  dowry 
needs, compulsions of social functions and also for doing illegal activities both within and 
outside the country.
What has the government done to curb black money? Not much except the voluntary 
disclosure schemes and giving amnesty for the amount disclosed and demonetization of 
higher denominated currencies. (RecallI ndiah ad earlier₹5 0 00 and ₹10,0 00 noteswhic h have
nowb een  discontinued and ceaseto be legalt ender s.)
                   
Thegovernmenthasalso declared thatalltransactionsover₹10,000 should bedonethrough 
             
cheques/drafts.Draftswould notbemadeby banksagainstcash exceeding ₹50,000 in oneday.
                     
Apermanent account number (PAN)hasbeen issued to alltax payers and itismandatory to 
                     
quotethePANnumberforalltransactionsover₹50,000.
                 
The income tax offices at the four metros have been computerized and networked,
               
creating a database of tax payers and transactions being performed by them. All Registrar
               
offices registering land deals, credit card companies, automobile manufactures, etc., are
     
required to furnish information beyond acutofflevel.
                   
The government with  a view to  have better tax  compliance, lesser tax  evasion, is
           
proposing the direct tax code which would simplify tax laws and provisions, plug leakages,
             
raise exemption  levels and  consider further lowering  tax  rates. However, till then  tax 
                     
compliancewillbeamajorconstraintto furtherraisetax revenueforthegovernment.
         
Demonetisation Policy:SurgicalStrikeonBlackMoney
               
On  November 8, 2016, the government announced  a historic measure, with  profound 
                   
implicationsfortheeconomy.Thetwo largestdenomination notes,Rs500 and Rs1000,were“
                     
demonetized ”with immediate effect,ceasing to belegal tender except forafewspecified 
                 
purposes.Atonef ellstro ke,86  percen tof th ecash in circulati on was thereby render ed in valid. 
These noteswere to be deposited in thebanksby De cember 3 0,2016 ,whilerestr iction s were
placed  on cash withdra wals.In  otherwords,restrictions wereplaced on theconvertibility of
domesticmoney and bank deposits.
                     
The aim of the actio n  w  as four fold: to  c urb  corruption; co unterfeiting; the use of
high den omination notes for terro rist  act ivities; and especial ly the accumulation of “black 
mone y”,generat ed by i nc ometha thasn otbeen declared to  thetax aut horities.    
 Itfollow ed aseriesof earlie reffor tsto cu rb such illicit activ ities,including thecreation of
the  Special  Investig ative Te am (SIT) in t he 20 14 bud get;  the Black Money and  Imposition  
of Tax Act 2015 ; Benam i Trans actions Act  2016; the infor mation  exchange agreem  ent
wit h Switze rland; chan ges in th e tax treaties with M  auritius, Cyprus and  Singap ore; and  
the Income Disc losure Schem e. Demonetisation was aim  ed at  signalling  a regim  e change,
emphas izing the g ove rnments de termin ation to pe na lize il lici t activ ities and  the a ssoci ated  
wealth. In effe ct, the tax on  all i llicit ac tiviti es, as well as legal activities that were not
disclosed to thetax authorities,wassoughtto bepermanently and punitively increased.156 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
In the wake of the demonetisation, the government has taken a number of steps to 
facilitate and incentivize the move to a digital economy. These include:
Launch of the BHIM (Bharat Interface For Money) app for smartphones. This is based 
on the new Unified Payments Interface (UPI) which has created inter-operability of digital 
transactions. The 250 million digital-haves can use their smartphone to make simple and 
quick payments.
Launch of BHIM USSD 2.0, a product that allows the 350 million feature phone users 
to take advantage of the UPI.
Launch of Aadhaar Merchant Pay, aimed at the 350 million who do not have phones. 
This enables anyone with just an Aadhaar number and a bank account to make a merchant 
payment using his biometric identification. Aadhar Merchant Pay will soon be integrated 
into BHIM and the necessary POS devices will soon be rolled out.
Reductions  in  fees  (Merchant  Discount  Rate)  paid  on  digital  transactions  and 
transactions that use the UPI. There have also been relaxations of limits on the use of 
payment wallets. Tax benefits have also been provided for to incentivize digital transactions.
Encouraging  the  adoption  of  POS  devices  beyond  the  current  1.5  million,  through 
tariff reductions.
Benefits of Demonetisation
Tax  on  black  money:  The  most  important  way  to  view  demonetisation  is  as  a  tax 
administration  measure,  one  designed  to  tax  holdings  of  black  money.  Of  course, 
demonetisation  of  large  denomination  notes is not  exactly  the same as demonetisation 
of black money. Some cash holdings were perfectly “white”, the fruit of income upon 
which taxes had either been paid or had not been applicable in the first place (agricultural 
income, for example).
Cash holdings arising from income that had been declared could readily be deposited 
at banks and ultimately exchanged for new notes. But those with black money faced three 
difficult choices. They could:
•  Declare their unaccounted wealth and pay taxes at a penalty rate;
•  Continue to hide it, not converting their old notes and thereby suffering a tax rate of 
100 percent; or
•  Launder their black money, paying a cost for converting the money into white.
Tax compliance: Demonetisation can also be interpreted as a regime shift on the part of 
the government. It is a demonstration of the state’s resolve to crack down on black money, 
showing that tax evasion will no longer be tolerated or accepted as an inevitable part of 
life.  Since  this  action  has  commanded support  amongst the  population,  demonetisation 
shows that black money will no longer be tolerated by the wider public, either.
Demonetisation  could  also  aid  tax  administration  in  another  way,  by  shifting 
transactions out of the cash economy and into the formal payments system. With large 
denominations  eliminated,  households  and  firms  have  begun  to  shift  from  cash  to 
electronic payment technologies.
Tax  on  informal  savings:  Beyond  reducing  tax  evasion,  demonetisation  could  have 
other farreaching effects. For example, it will channel savings into the formal financial 
system. Without doubt, much of the cash that has been deposited in the banking system GOVERNMENT FINANCES 157
will be  taken  out again,  as the cash withdrawal limits are eased and the note supply 
improves. But some of the new deposits will surely remain in the banks, where they will 
provide a base for banks to provide more loans, at lower interest rates.
In the longer-term, if demonetisation is successful, it will reduce the equilibrium cash- 
GDP and cash-deposits ratio in the economy. This will increase financial savings which 
could have a positive impact on long run growth.
VIEWS ON TAX COMPLIANCE
13.11
(1)  Has it ever occurred why people do not want to pay taxes? Paying taxes globally is 
a matter of pride and joining hands with the government to provide better for the 
masses and improved civic amenities. Not so in India.
(2)  That  is,  because,  people  doubt  the  intentions  of  the  government  in  using  it 
productively for the masses. Tax compliance would thus require austerity measures 
on the government lesser lavish spending and more responsiveness and sensitiveness 
towards the spending for masses.
(3)  Tax compliance should be top-driven. Have you ever seen any top political leader, 
bureaucrat going to file his income tax return at the IT office in-person. No! it is 
not required officially but it sends the right message to people that how it is of high 
priority despite their busy schedule. Who is the first person seen as voting in an 
election? It is the President, Prime Minister and other top leaders. ‘Why?’ Just to send 
the right message to the people to come out and cast their vote.
(4)  Hence  tax  compliance  should  start right  from  the top.  The  President,  PM,  Chief 
Ministers and senior leaders all of them filing their tax returns in-person.
(5)  Who is the highest tax payer in the country? It is difficult to say or even more difficult 
to say who are the top 100 tax payers in the country. What prevents the government 
from honouring them at a public ceremony acknowledging their contribution to the 
national cause? It will transmit positive signals and encourage people to pay their 
taxes.
(6)  What if one is seen by one’s friend or relative at the income tax office? It would 
definitely not be positive. The perception of the income tax officials has got to change 
from treating everyone as a tax evader to that of trust, a friend guiding and supporting 
the people. Let them have ‘May I help you counter’ at their offices for any assistance 
people may want. They could send out staff to assist tax payers in correctly filing their 
returns. It should not be difficult but could go a long way in increasing the compliance.
(7)  It is not difficult to find out regular tax payers, a small well-worded thank you card can 
be sent to them each time after they have filed their return. Today, technology support 
is available to generate such computerized letters. What is being meant here is that the 
incentive for a tax payer to pay his taxes, a mere token of appreciation can work.
(8)  Our policies for tax evasion can be said to be ‘soft’. What is required is strong 
punishment for tax evaders, those generating black money uniform for all irrespective 
of whether political leader, bureaucrat, private organization, etc., to serve as a lesson 
and a source of discouragement.
While tax compliance would remain an issue, still there are some other issues which 
can help augment revenue to the government like completely simplified tax regime based 
on income at low rates with no exemptions easily enforceable and minimizing leakages.158 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
What is a an efficient tax system? An efficient tax system should allow for raising revenue 
without burdening the common man. It should provide for BECN briefed as below: 
B buoyancy (raise tax revenue with increased growth of an economy rather thanby 
  changing the tax rates).
 E effectiveness (promoting tax compliance).
C cost-effective (lower cost of collection with increased tax revenue).
N neutral to economic decisions (not influencing location of businesses).
The present tax structure in India is still evolving and moving in the right direction 
of a GST for indirect taxes and direct tax code for direct taxes. While all these efforts 
at increasing tax compliance are appreciable there are other issues which should also get 
adequate attention of the government and that is cost of collection of taxes is continuously 
increasing. There is a requirement to arrest this trend and ensure higher collections at lower 
costs.
The  other  is  given  the  inflexibility  of  expenditure,  there  is  scope  for  rationalizing 
government expenditure by reviewing the requirement for so many ministries, merging 
ministries  for  sharper  focus,  abolition  of  vacant  posts,  greater  austerity  in  government 
spending and small expenditure cuts wherever feasible. It is these small cuts which would 
make the picture larger. And for once economics should prevail over political compulsions 
in the larger interests of the economy.
Typical Budget in India
We have covered public expenditure, taxes and different kinds of deficits as part of the 
budgetary process. A typical budget presentation initiates with a review of the economy in 
terms of the Economic Survey presented in the Parliament (a few days before the budget 
is presented), which is followed by the expenditure proposals and finally the tax proposals 
which most anxiously awaited by all.
All receipts in the economy are retained in the consolidated fund of India and money 
can be utilized only after the budget is passed by both the Houses of Parliament, which is 
that Parliament provides approval for various expenditure and permits withdrawal of funds 
for various expenditure needs of the economy. Certain expenses can be incurred by the 
government without the approval of Parliament and are known as ‘charged expenditure’ 
such as meeting interest obligations, salaries and emoluments to constitutionally appointed 
heads such as chief justice of India, CVC, CAG, etc.
There are two other kinds of budgets interim and vote on account. Interim is a kind of 
budget addressed for a period less than a Rill year. Vote on account is not a type of budget 
strictly, but seeks approval for ongoing expenditure needs, no fresh expenditure or tax 
proposals. This is normally presented when the government is about to face elections or 
when the time period is too short even for an interim budget to be presented. In any case, 
the choice of the type of budget to be presently lies with the government.
In case, election dare has already been announced the election commission is empowered 
to  restrain  the  government  from  presenting  an  interim  budget  but  present  a  vote  on 
account only. Traditionally, budgets are shrouded with secrecy and it lacks transparency.GOVERNMENT FINANCES 159
There should be greater and broader participation of people from all walks of life to ensure 
budgets being prepared are not only of the government but also of the people.
The budgets are focused on ‘outlays’ or spending under different heads but no provision 
is made to know the outcome’ of such spending. The ocher aspect is the outlays are not 
linked  to  the  actual  need.  For  example,  the  budget  might propose increased outlay of 
say ₹1 00 croreson  educationi nc omparisont oa ni ncreaseofonly ₹ 5 0c rores int helastb udget. 
How ever,the reisnom e ntiono  fh owmuchac tuall ynee d stobes pentoneduc ati oninto  tal .  
MERGEROFRAILBUDGETWITHUNIONBUDGET
13.12
           
Changesmadein Budgetand BudgetaryPractices
       
• MergerofRailBudgetwith Union Budget
•  Advanc em ento fFinan cialYear
•  To advanceits  pr esentation  by 27 days.
•  To dispense wi th Plan-non-Plan dichotomy in expenditure.
   
BudgetPresentation DateAdvancement
   
The objective behind  this move is to  have the Budget constitutionally  approved  by 
Parl iament an d  assented   to  by  the  Preside nt,  and  all  allocations at different tiers
disseminate d to budget-holders,beforet hefinancial yearbegi nson April1 .      
• The proposal for a change  in the  bu dget pres entat ion da te was fi rst mooted by some
  of th e governm  en t’s  senior most b ureaucra ts as part of a ‘T ransf ormi ng India initiative 
in  Janu ary 2016.                    
Advantages:
•  In the existing system, the Lok Sabha passes a vote on account for the April-June 
quarter, under which departments are provided a sixth of their total allocation for the 
year. This is done by March. The Finance Bill is not passed before late April or early 
May. If the Budget is read in January and passed by February-March, it would enable 
the government to do away with a vote on account for the first three months of a 
financial year.
•  Retired and serving officials say the biggest plus would be that the Finance Bill, 
incorporating  the  Budget  proposals,  could  be  passed  by  February  or  March.  So, 
government  departments,  agencies  and  state-owned  companies  would  know  their 
allocations right from April 1, when the financial year begins.
•  It would also help the private sector to anticipate government procurement trends and 
evolve their business plans.
To dispense with Plan-non-Plan dichotomy in expenditure from 2017-18
From 2017-18, the Central Government expenditure will be classified only as capital and 
revenue spends.
The move is a part of the governments decision to do away with the classification of 
Plan and Non-Plan expenditure. In line with the government’s decision to dismantle the160 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Planning Commission, the new spending classification will come at a time when the Five- 
Year Plan mechanism will also end. Instead, it will be replaced by a medium to long-term 
planning system under the NITI Aayog.
The classifications in the Union Budget 2016-17 for Centrally-sponsored schemes have 
already been changed to “core of the core”, “core” and “optimal”.
Improving Quality
Economists have for long argued that Plan and Non-Plan classifications should be done 
away with and the focus should be on improving  the quality of government  spending  by 
focusing on thee nd useo fth efu nds.
Plan expenditure, denotes the more productive use of government resources as investment 
in various programmes and schemes, but forms a small chunk of the total spending bill. 
Non-Plan expenditure, on the other hand, is the majority of the government spending and 
is used for interest payments, subsidies, wages and grants to States.
Plan/Non-Plan will help in resolving the following issues
•  This distinction of expenditure had led to a fragmented view of resource allocation 
to various schemes.
•  It had made it difficult to ascertain cost of delivering a service and also to link 
outlays to outcomes.
•  It had led to bias in favour of Plan expenditure by Centre as well as the State 
Governments  and  had  neglected  essential  expenditures  on  maintenance  of  assets 
and other establishment related expenditures to provide essential social services.
•  The merger is expected to provide appropriate budgetary framework that will have 
focus on the capital and revenue expenditure
The separate Railway Budget, a 92-year-old tradition, has been scrapped by the centre. 
The Rail budget will be merged with the Union Budget starting next year as indicated by 
Finance Minister Arun Jaitley .The government is also in favour of advancing the Budget 
process, including thed ateo fpr esentation.TheRa ilway Budgetwas usua lly presented two days
befor etheU nion  Budget.
From now onwards all the proposals regarding Railway Budget will be part of general 
budget, which will have a separate discussion on railway expenditure, but the functional 
autonomy of the Railways will be maintained. The end of a separate Budget will be a relief 
for the Railways, since its revenue deficit and capital expenditure will now get transferred 
to the Finance Ministry.
The Railways is also facing an accumulated burden of a whopping Rs. 4.83 lakh crore 
towards execution of 458 unfinished and ongoing projects. With the scrapping of die rail 
budget, the Railways will also not have to pay a special dividend to the government for 
getting gross budgetary support. The Railways pays about Rs. 10,000 crore as dividend a 
year after getting about Rs. 40,000 crore.
           
Acommitteeled by NitiAayog memberBibek Dcbroy on restructuring oftheMinistry of
               
Railways had recommended thattheBritish-eralegacy ofhaving aseparaterailway budget
           
should bephased out,merging itwith theGeneralBudget.GOVERNMENT FINANCES 161
This step will help raise capital expenditure in Railways which will enhance connectivity 
in  the  country  and  boost  economic  growth.  Functional  autonomy,  distinct  identity  of 
Railways will remain as it is. The merger would also facilitate an integrated and seamless 
approach towards transportation strategy in the country.
It has been proposed to hold the budget session of Parliament early and present the 
union budget on February 1 instead of the past practice of it coming only on the last day 
of February.
The budgets year after year get engaged in micro issues for example taxes on tooth 
pastes, etc., which is not required. The budget may address broad issues of the tax rates 
in general rather than go into the minutest of details or should be more macro-oriented 
and micro-detailing done through annexures, for a better understanding of the underlying 
macro-issues in a budget.
Such reforms in the budgetary process itself also need to be integrated as part of the 
larger reforms. All the reforms in the country are around the government but not in the 
government.
SOME OTHER FORMS OF BUDGETING
13.13.
Zero-Based Budgeting - ZBB
This is a method of budgeting in which all expenses must be justified for each financial 
year. The process of this budgeting starts from a “zero base,” on every financial year. Every 
function within the ministry or department is analyzed for its needs and costs. Budget 
allocations are then made according to the need of ensuing financial year.
Outcome Budget
The Outcome Budget is a progress card on what various Ministries and Departments have 
done with the budget allocation in the previous budget. Outcome based budgeting is a 
practice of suggesting and listing of estimated outcomes of each programmes or schemes 
designed.
Gender Budget
A  Gender  Budget  or  Gender-Responsive  Budget  is  a  budget  allocation  that  considers 
the gender patterns in the society and allocates the resources to implement policies and 
programs to help moving society towards a more gender equal society.
Gender  Budget  disaggregates  the  mainstream  budget  according  to  its  impacts  on 
women and men. It visualizes the process of conceiving, planning, approving, executing, 
monitoring, analyzing and auditing budgets in a gender-sensitive way.
Performance Budgeting
Performance Budgeting also known as Planning-Programming-Budgeting System (PPBS) 
is an attempt to integrate budgeting with overall planning of the country as a whole. It 162 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
tries to make the planning, execution, and evaluation of government policies in a more 
systematic manner. The centre for PPBS is the budget; the methods used are planning and 
decision-making. The purpose of this budget is for ensuring a more viable economy and 
improved coordination among various sectors.
 
   
     
     
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
     
 
 
 
  CHAPTER14
OF INDIA AND 
MONETARY POLICY 
COMMITTEE
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
In the previous section on government finances, we had discussed about various kinds of 
deficits. How are deficits met or do they remain as deficits on paper only. Any deficit has 
to be met. A government budget could be met through either printing of notes or it could 
be borrowed known as market borrowings of the government.
The fulfilling of deficits takes us into the realms of‘banking’. At the apex is Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) aslo known as the Central Bank of India, which controls banking in 
India and is also the banker to the government. Both printing of money as well as market 
borrowings are the major functions of RBI.
But then what is money? Something which has universal acceptability, functions as a 
medium of exchange, store of value and also having the backing of the government as a 
legal tender in the economy. Then what is ‘near’ money? Near money functions similar to 
the money but is not actually money as it is not universally acceptable such as credit cards 
'also known as plastic money), drafts and debit cards.
Money in Indiac ompriseso fcu rrency notesof ₹2 000,500 ,200 ,100, 50,2 0 an d 10 signed
bythe Go vern or ofRBIa nd coin sof ₹10,5 , 2  ,   1 ,50  pai sa wh ich areno tsigned b utca rry the
den omination  and thenationalembl  em.  
All  notes  are  printed  at  the  printing  presses  functioning  under  the  RBI  and  coins 
minted at government mints under the Ministry of Finance, Government of India. The 
basis of printing is minimum reserve system with a minimum value of government-held 
           
gold of ₹200 croresand theremaining isbacked by thegovernmentsecuritiesissued and held 
               
by RBI.TheRBI/governmenthascompleteflexibility in printing ofnotes.However,printing of
             
money increasesthestock ofmoney in relation to goodsavailableand thuspushesup theprices
     
resulting in inflationary pressures.
               
If the deficit is financed  through  printing  of money  it is known  as monetization 
               
of deficit or monetized deficit. Any monetized deficit will leads to inflation. Realizing 
                 
the dangers of monetization, governments have switched  to  market borrowings for
                 
meeting  the deficit to  prevent build-up  of inflationary  pressures for the past several
decades.
                       
What are market borrowings? Market borrowingfor meetingthe deficit is performed
                     
by theRBI,on behalfofthegovernmentbeing abankerto thegovernment.Thisis164 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
performed  through  issuance  of  central  government  securities  by  RBI  and  could  either 
treasury bills (borrowings of less than a year) or dated securities (more than a year).
All carry a fixed interest rate (also known as coupon) directly in case of dated securities 
and can be derived in case of treasury bills. There is always a market for government 
securities as they are risk-free (gilt edged) as the government can never be a defaulter in 
meeting its debt obligations and in the most exceptional circumstances it can always resort 
to printing of currency in discharge of its debt obligations.
A major role is played by banks as they subscribe to these borrowing programs of the 
RBI. This is discussed separately in the chapter on Banking.
However, large government borrowings to meet the deficit have three issues. One, it 
crowds out private investment which otherwise would have arrived in the economy. This is 
because the money is being raised in the same economy from where the private investment 
comes. Secondly, large borrowings would add pressures on interest rates as large borrowing 
would necessitate higher interest rates. If the interest on government securities is high it 
would add pressures on the general interest rate which could create inflationary pressures. 
Thirdly, interest payment is the number one expenditure head accounting for over 25 per 
cent of the total expenditure in the economy. This has happened as over the past several 
decades deficits are being financed through market borrowings.
Hence it is easy to understand that both the methods of meeting the deficits have 
their own downturns and a better way is to contain the deficits to ‘manageable limits*. 
This would  require fiscal consolidation both  back-ended  (boosting receipts through tax 
reforms)  as  well  as  front-ended  (curtailing  unproductive  expenditure  and  austerity  in 
government spending).
The challenge fort he g overnment e specially ‘open’e nded subsidiesor tho sewh ich do not
hav eany  outercap,l iesin  strik ing abalance between  meeting expenditure needsof thesoc ial 
sec torand  infrastr ucturaldevelopmen t,maintain gro wth momentumand atthesam etimek eep  
thefis cald eficitman ageab leasa long-termstr ate g y.  
14.2 MONETARY POLICY COMMITTEE
Monetary policy decisions by central banks can have far-reaching implications for the 
economy, investors, savers and borrowers. And if seen to be taken by an individual, these 
decisions can cause a lot of heartburn. Therefore, globally many governments have solved 
this problem by appointing a committee.
The  Government  amended  the  RBI  Act  to  hand  over  the  job  of  monetary  policy- 
making in India to a newly constituted Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) on June 27, 
2016.
The  new  MPC  is  to  be  a  six-member  panel  that  is  expected  to  bring  “value  and 
transparency” to rate-setting decisions. It will feature three members from the RBI: the 
Governor, a Deputy Governor and another official and three independent members to be 
selected by the Government.
A  search  committee  (yes,  another  committee)  will  recommend  three  external 
members,  experts  in  the  field  of  economics,  banking  or  finance,  for  the  Government RESERVE BANKOF INDIA AND MONETARY POLICY COMMITTEE 165
appointees. The MPC will meet four times a year to decide on monetary policy by a 
majority vote. And if there’s a tie between the ‘Ayes’ and the ‘Nays’, the RBI governor 
gets the deciding vote.
Where the government nominees will serve a four-year term “or until further orders, 
whichever is earlier”, they will function as independent members. The committee decides 
interest rates through a majority vote, with each member having one vote. In case there 
is a tie, the governor will cast vote. At least four members will have to be present for the 
quorum to be complete. The special feature of MPC is that, it doesn’t comprise of only 
pure monetary economists.
Functions of the MPC
Under  the  Monetary  Policy  Framework  Agreement,  the  RBI  will  be  responsible  for 
containing  inflation  targets  at  4%  (with  a  standard  deviation  of  2%)  in  the  medium 
term. Under Section 45ZA(1) of the RBI Act, 1934, the Central Government determines 
the inflation target in terms of the Consumer Price Index, once in every five years in 
consultation with the RBI. This target would be notified in the Official Gazette. Though 
the central bank already had a monetary framework and was implementing the monetary 
policy, the newly designed statutory framework would mean that the RBI would have to 
give an explanation in the form of a report to the Central Government, if it failed to reach 
the specified inflation targets. It shall, in the report, give reasons for failure, remedial actions 
as well as estimated time within which the inflation target shall be achieved. Further, RBI 
is mandated to publish a Monetary Policy Report every six months, explaining the sources 
of inflation and the forecasts of inflation for the coming period of six to eighteen months.
Given this backdrop, MPC decides the changes to be made to the policy rate (repo 
rate) so as to contain the inflation within the target level specified to it by the Central 
Government. Each member of the Monetary Policy Committee has to write a statement 
specifying the reasons for voting in favour of, or against the proposed resolution, and the 
same alongwith the resolution adopted by the MPC is published as minutes of the meeting 
by RBI after 14 days of the said meeting. In addition, subsequent to the MPC meeting, 
RBI has to publish a document explaining the steps to be taken by it to implement the 
decisions of the Monetary Policy Committee, including any changes thereto.
DecisionMakingatMPC
     
The proceedings ofMPC are confidential and the quorum for a  meeting shall be four a 
                          
members,a tle aston eof who mshall bethe Go vern orand in h is absence, the Deputy  who  isthe
Mem bero ftheMP C.       
The MPC takes decisions based on majority vote (by those who are present and voting). 
In case of a tie, the RBI governor will have the second or casting vote. The decision of the 
Committee would be binding on the RBI.166 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
No act or proceeding of the Monetary Policy Committee shall be invalid merely by 
reason of—
•  any vacancy in, or any defect in the constitution of the MPC; or
•  any defect in the appointment of a person acting as a Member of the MPC; or
•  any irregularity in the procedure of the MPC not affecting the merits of the case.
As per the Act, RBI has to organise at least four meetings of the MPC in a year. The 
government may, if it considers necessary, convey its views, in writing, to the MPC from 
time to time.
RBI is mandated to furnish necessary information to the MPC to facilitate their decision 
making and if any member of the MPC, at any time, requests the RBI for additional 
information, including any data, models or analysis, the same have to be provided, not 
just to that member but to all members.
The transitioning from the current decision process to that of an MPC will impart 
diversity of views, specialised experience and independence of opinion in the monetary 
policy  decisions  which  could  help  in  improving  the  representativeness  in  the  overall 
decision-making process.
               
   
   
 
                       
     
 
 
 
 
 
               
 
               
             
           
 
 
 
     
    CHAPTER15
BANKING
In the previous chapter, it was mentioned that the apex bank is the RBI besides acting 
as a banker to the government. It is also banker to banks and functions as the monetary 
authority in the economy.
15.1 BANKS IN INDIA
Bank is a financial intermediary between the people (which accept deposits from them 
by providing them interest on deposits maintained within the bank) and economy (lends 
for productive purposes at an interest) and in the process earns profits. This is known 
as commercial banking. Banking in India is truly a reflection of a mixed economy with 
public sector banks, private and foreign banks.
Public  sector  banks  in  India  are  presently  twenty-one  comprising  of  State  Bank  of 
India. Banks have an important role to act in the overall growth of an economy in their 
ability to lend to various sectors of the economy for expansion, diversification of existing 
businesses and also to support the new businesses.
In  line  with  the  liberalization  policy,  reforms  were  also  initiated  simultaneously  in 
the  banking  sector  during  1991  based  on  the  recommendations  of  the  Narasimham 
committee.
Before 1991, banking was highly sheltered and regulated by the RBI, like the industrial 
sector. To support the policy of liberalization and also to allow for growth of the private 
sector, it became essential to undertake banking sector reforms.
BANKING STRUCTURE IN INDIA
Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
The RBI is the supreme monetary and banking authority in the country’ and controls 
the banking system in India. It is called the Reserve Bank’ as it keeps the reserves of all 
commercial banks.
The  Reserve  Bank  of  India  was  established  on  April  1, 1935  in accordance with the 
provisions of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.168 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The Central Office of the  Reserve  Bank was initially  established  in Calcutta  but was 
permanently  moved to Mumbai in 1937.T heC entral O ffice is wh ere the Go vernor sits and  
wherepoli ciesaref orm ulated.
Though originally privately owned, since nationalisation in 1949, the Reserve Bank is 
fully owned by the Government of India.
Scheduled & Non-scheduled Banks
A scheduled bank is a bank that is listed under the second schedule of the RBI Act, 
1934. In order to be included under this schedule of the RBI Act, banks have to fulfill 
certain conditions such as having a paid up capital and reserves of at least 0.5 million and 
satisfying the Reserve Bank that its affairs are not being conducted in a manner prejudicial 
to the interests of its depositors. Scheduled banks are further classified into commercial 
and cooperative banks. Non- scheduled banks are those which are not included in the 
second schedule of the RBI Act, 1934.
Commercial Banks
Commercial banks may be defined as, any banking organization that deals with the deposits 
and loans of business organizations. Commercial banks issue bank checks and drafts, as 
well as accept money on term deposits. Commercial banks also act as moneylenders, by 
way of installment loans and overdrafts. Commercial banks also allow for a variety of 
deposit accounts, such as checking, savings, and time deposit. These institutions are run 
to make a profit and owned by a group of individuals.
Scheduled Commercial Banks (SCBs)
Scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) account for a major proportion of the business of 
the scheduled banks. SCBs in India are categorized into the five groups based on their 
ownership and/or their nature of operations. State Bank of India and its six associates 
(excluding State Bank of Saurashtra, which has been merged with the SBI with effect 
from August 13, 2008) are recognised as a separate category of SCBs, because of the 
distinct statutes (SBI Act, 1955 and SBI Subsidiary Banks Act, 1959) that govern them. 
Nationalised banks and SBI and associates together form the public sector banks group 
IDBI ltd. has been included in the nationalised banks group since December 2004. Private 
sector banks include the old private sector banks and the new generation private sector 
banks- which were incorporated according to the revised guidelines issued by the RBI 
regarding the entry of private sector banks in 1993.
Foreign  banks  are  present  in  the  country  either  through  complete  branch/subsidiary 
route presence or through their representative offices.BANKING 169
Types of Scheduled Commercial Banks
Public Sector Banks
These are banks where majority stake is held by the Government of India. Examples of 
public sector banks are: SBI, Bank of India, Canara Bank, etc.
Private Sector Banks
These are banks majority of share capital of the bank is held by private individuals. These 
banks are registered as companies with limited liability. Examples of private sector banks 
are: ICICI Bank, Axis bank, HDFC, etc.
Foreign Banks
These banks are registered and have their headquarters in a foreign country but operate 
their branches in our country. Examples of foreign banks in India are: HSBC, Citibank, 
Standard Chartered Bank, etc
Regional Rural Banks
Regional Rural Banks were established under the provisions of an Ordinance promulgated 
on the 26th September 1975 and the RRB Act, 1976 with an objective to ensure sufficient 
institutional credit for agriculture and other rural sectors. The area of operation of RRBs is 
limited to the area as notified by Gol covering one or more districts in the State.
RRBs are jointly owned by Gol, the concerned State Government and Sponsor Banks 
(27 scheduled commercial banks and one State Cooperative Bank); the issued capital of a 
RRB is shared by the owners in the proportion of 50%, 15% and 35% respectively.170 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Cooperative Banks
>co-operative bank is a financial entity which belongs to its members, who are at the 
same time  the  owners  and  the  customers  of  their  bank.  Co-operative  banks  are  often 
created by persons belonging to the same local or professional community or sharing a 
common interest. Co-operative banks generally provide their members with a wide range 
of banking and financial services (loans, deposits, banking accounts, etc).
•  'Ihey  provide  limited  banking  products  and  are  specialists  in  agriculture-relatec 
products.
•  Cooperative banks are the primary financiers of agricultural activities, some small- 
scale industries and self-employed workers.
•  Co-operative banks function on the basis of “no-profit no-loss”.
•  Anyonya Co-operative Bank Limited (ACBL)  is t he f irst c o-operative b ank in India  
located in the city of Vadodara in Gujarat.
15.3 MAJOR AREAS OF REFORM IN THE BANKING SECTOR
(1)  Liberal entry of private sector and foreign banks. It is as a part of the reforms that 
today there are big private banks such as ICICI, HDFC, Axis and foreign banks such 
as the Citi group, HSBC, Barclays operating along with the public sector banks.
(2)  Public  sector  were  provided  greater  autonomy  to  function  in  a  competitive 
environment and frame independent policies based on broad framework provided by 
RBI.
(3)  Interest rates both the deposits as well as advances were de-regulated and each bank 
was free to decide on the interest rates it chose to offer including interest on savings 
account which until recently was regulated by RBI.
(4)  Similarly, in respect of lending rates, banks were free to decide on the interest rate they 
would charge, they had to publish the lowest rate of interest they would charge to 
their best except that clients known as the benchmarked prime lending rate (BPLR).
•  BPLR, however, lacked transparency as banks were lending even below BPLR 
known as sub BPLR lending. As a result, transmission of policy rate of RBI on 
lending by banks was diffused. To obviate this, RBI in 2010 has asked the banks 
to switch to base rate of interest, and that lending would not be done by banks, 
below their respective published base rate of interest, except DRI advances for 
weaker sector, loans against own deposits and loans to employees.
•  The basic difference between BPLR and base rate is that, while BPLR had a 
component of risk premium, it has to be loaded on the base rate. Thus, lending 
below base rate would be a losing proposition for banks.
•  The MCLR methodology for fixing interest rates for advances was introduced by 
the Reserve Bank of India with effect from April 1, 2016. This new methodology 
replaces the base rate system introduced in July 2010. In other words, all rupee 
Ioans sanctioned and credit limits renewed w.e.f. April 1, 2016 would be priced 
with reference to the Marginal Cost of Funds based Lending Rate (MCLR) which 
will be the internal benchmark (means a reference rate determined internally by 
the bank) for such purposes.BANKING 171
•  Existing loans and credit limits linked to the Base Rate (internal benchmark rate 
used  to  determine  interest  rates  uptill  31  March  2016)  or  Benchmark  Prime 
Lending  Rate  (BPLR  or  the  internal  benchmark  rate  used  to  determine  the 
interest rates on advances/loans sanctioned upto June 30, 2010.) would continue 
till repayment or renewal, as the case may be. However, existing borrowers will 
have the  option  to move  to the  Marginal  Cost  of Funds based  Lending Rate 
(MCLR) linked loan at mutually acceptable terms.
•  The marginal cost of funds based lending rate (MCLR) refers to the minimum 
interest rate of a bank below which it cannot lend, except in some cases allowed 
by the RBI. It is an internal benchmark or reference rate for the bank. MCLR 
actually  describes  the  method  by  which  the  minimum  interest  rate  for  loans 
is determined by a bank - on the basis of marginal cost or the additional or 
incremental cost of arranging one more rupee to the prospective borrower.
(5)  Banking was made more transparent, stress on full disclosure of both the good and 
bad assets.
(6)  There was a standardization and uniform income recognition, asset classification and 
provisioning norms for the banking sector. For the first time, a uniform definition 
was  given  to  non-performing  assets  (NPAs)  known  as  the  90  days  norms.  Thus, 
interest on loans provided if not received within the stipulated time would require to 
be classified as an NPA.
(7)  Realizing that banking is risky business having normal risks in lending and also to 
safeguard interest, banks were required to adhere to ‘capital adequacy’ norms in terms 
of international best practices (dealt separately below).
Finally, the overall objective was to bring in greater competition in the banking sector 
allowing for better products, improved services and fine-tuned interest rates to support the 
financial requirements of a growing economy like India and enable bigger banks in India 
to emerge as global banks.
CAPITAL ADEQUACY (BASEL NORMS)
Capital adequacy is a part of the larger global frame work of banking committee for 
financial supervision (BCFC), also known as Basel I and II and now also III norms post- 
global crisis. (Basel is a place in Switzerland where BCFC prescribed norms applicable to 
all banks across countries and thus known as Basel norms). Capital adequacy implies that 
any bank, being engaged in a business of lending has normal risks’ associated and should 
have some minimum own funds to meet such risks.
Capital  of  banks  being  defined  as  the  banks  own  capital  and  reserves  as  the  core 
capital (Tier I) and also a component of supplementary capital (Tier II) is available to 
banks but less readily, like the revaluation of its assets (taken at a discount), provisions 
held  for  standard  assets  and  long-term  bonds  raised  by  the  bank  (sub-ordinated 
debt).
Banks are today required to have their own capital in terms of shareholders funds, 
retained profits (deposits in banks are not bank’s own but public money). The condition 172 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
was that Tier II capital could not be more than 100 per cent of Tier I capital and that 
subordinated debt under Tier II capital not to exceed 50 per cent of Tier I capital.
The assets portfolio of a bank were weighted by the risk element, prescribed by central 
banks in the respective countries and aggregated, and a minimum 8 per cent of capital 
prescribed as the capital adequacy measure or Basel I norms. Which is, if a bank has risk 
weighted assets of ₹1 00 then itsh ould behav ing atleas tasca pit al (Tier Iand  II ),to comp ly 
with theBaselIn orms.   
Reserve Bank of India for Indian Banks, as a part of the financial sector reforms gave a 
time frame to Indian banks to become the Basel compliant. Subsequently, the norm was 
raised to 9 per cent and continues to be the same presently in India. Basel II norms further 
refined the concept of measurement of risk and also brought in concept of operational 
risk,  which  are  not  covered  as  part  of  the  Basel  I  norms  and  retaining  the  ratio  as 
8 per cent. All Indian banks are both Basel I and II compliant.
Post-global crisis the ratio has been further increased implying greater capacity need 
for banks to ensure that such global financial sector crisis does not recur in future. Capital 
adequacy thus has allowed for financial regulations to become global. It also allows any 
investor or a depositor to know the fundamental strength of banks and take their own 
informed decisions based on the capital adequacy levels of different banks.
LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT BY RBI
Relevance  of  banking  apart  from  meeting  the  growing  needs  of  the  economy  is  their 
strong linkage with inflation through their ability to increase liquidity in the economy. 
This is said to be as one of the major cause for buildup of inflationary pressures.
Liquidity
A bank accepts deposits from the public which is lent in the economy. The money which 
can potentially’ be lent by the banks is known to be liquidity. Bank leverages the deposit 
manifold for lending in the economy known as ‘credit creation’ by banks. This credit 
creation is almost like fresh money injected in the economy and contributes to inflationary 
pressures. Thus, liquidity in the economy should strike a balance between requirements of 
growth and at the same time keep the prices under check. Managing liquidity is a major 
aspect of the RBI functions.
Previously,  it  was  mentioned  that  RBI  was  the  apex  central  bank  of  the  country 
functioning as banker to the government and banks, responsible for printing of currency’ 
notes, overseeing the functioning of the banking sector and now its another important and 
critical role in liquidity management.
It is important to understand first that money deposited in the bank is a source of 
liquidity. Money deposited could either be ‘demand’ deposits (payable by the bank on 
demand by a customer like money retaining in your savings account in the bank can be 
withdrawn by you at any time) or, ‘time’ deposits (can be withdrawn after a fixed period 
only like fixed deposits). Both demand as well as time deposits is the liabilities of the bank 
as the bank has to pay it back to the customer.173
BANKING
Thus, both are known as ‘demand and time liabilities’ of banks. These demand and 
time liabilities of the banking system are the source of increasing liquidity. If unchecked, 
it will be keep on increasing. RBI cannot question the public to not deposit money in the 
banks as it is the source of liquidity and neither can it direct banks to stop lending as if 
they do not lend they will not be able to meet the interest on deposits which the banks 
have to pay and also not able to earn profits for their future growth.
RBI  thus  has  certain  quantitative  and  qualitative  tools  through  which  it  manages 
liquidity and they are as follows:
(1)  Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR)—Every bank has to retain a certain percentage of its 
demands and time liabilities in cash with the RBI which can be raised by the RBI to 
drain out excess liquidity or reduced to release the liquidity in the economy.
For example,o n ap ublicde positba seofo ve r₹ 50 ,0 0,000 croresin the bankin g system
a1 per ce nt incr ease in CRR would le ad in overnight transfer  50,000 c rores from the 
banki ng s ystemto RBIor which ca nn otbeleveraged  for lending by the banks.Even a0. 
                   
25 percentincreasewould imply about₹ 12,500 croresgoing outofthebanking system.
             
Such alargeamountcould lead to adrop in lending by banksdampening industrialgrowth 
       
oreven triggering arecession in theeconomy.
                 
Thus, CRR as a monetary tool which has to be carefully used by the RBI keeping 
                 
in view all aspects of the economy and not merely decreasing liquidity for fears of
                     
inflation. Frequent use of the CRR, especially their increase by any central bank of a
               
country sends negative sentiments in the economy. Changes in CRR are necessary in 
             
exceptional circumstances or adverse developments in the economy rather than being 
       
frequently used asamonetary toolformanaging liquidity.
                           
The other issue in its use is that it is applicable to all banks alike and does
                 
not allow banks to take a long-term lending decision as they are uncertain about
                     
when  the RBI would  raise CRR. The present CRR effective from Dec, 2017  is
 
4.00 percent.
               
(2) Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)—This is another monetary tool of the RBI, in 
                 
terms of which every bank is required to set aside again a certain percentage of their
               
demand and time liabilities and retain as cash with RBI, or in gold with the RBI or
               
invested in government securities. The banks prefer to invest in government securities
       
asitearnstheminterest.
                     
At present, a minimum 20% (effective from August 2017) » r the demand and 
                   
time liabilities are to  be invested. Banks have, however, parked  greater than  the
             
minimum stipulation in government securities and is thus today an in-effective tool
to managing liquidity.
                       
(3) BankRate—Itistherateofinterestcharged by RBIforlending money to banksagainst
               
eligiblesecurities.In theeraofcontrolled and regulated banking,bank rateswereraised 
                 
to discourage banks to borrow from RBI for increasing liquidity as a way to reduce
                     
liquidity.Italso served asabench mark fordetermining otherratesofinterestby theRBI.
                   
Bank ratethough stillcontinuing isnotused asatoolforliquidity managementby RBI
                       
asthereisalready asecondary marketforsuch securitiesand ithaslostitssignificance.
                     
It presently uses as a penalty rate imposed by RBI on banks for violations of RBI
directives.174 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(4)  Open market operations (OMO)—This is sale/purchase of secondary government 
securities by RBI through the auction route and not binding on the banks unlike 
the CRR and SLR. In periods of excess liquidity RBI resorts to ‘sale’ of government 
securities to banks draining out the money from banks thus reducing liquidity. For 
increasing liquidity, it purchases’ securities from banks thereby transferring money to 
banks to lend resulting in liquidity increase. These OMO are performed at quarterly 
intervals.
(5)  Repo  auction  (Re-purchase  obligations)—This  is  the most frequently used tool 
by the RBI for managing short-term liquidity even overnight. It is the same as the 
OMO except that there is an inbuilt clause of automatic ‘repurchase’ after a specified 
period. Banks can keep eligible government securities, over and above those kept for 
maintaining SLR, with RBI and borrow for a short period (generally overnight) and 
interest paid by banks on such borrowings is called as ‘Repo rate.’
RBI also has a window where it offers government securities, which banks can 
subscribe, and the rate of interest now paid by the RBI to banks is referred as ‘Reverse 
repo.’ Both of these will involve repurchase after the contracted period automatically. 
Both these rates are determined by RBI. Repo rate and reverse repo rate are linked on 
a 25 bps and always repo rate (presently 6.0% effective from September 2017) will be 
higher than the reverse repo rate (presently 5.75% effective from September 2017).
(6)  Marginal Standing Facility- This is a new Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) 
created by Reserve Bank of India in 2011. It is a window for banks to borrow from 
the Reserve Bank of India in an emergency situation when inter-bank liquidity dries 
up completely. The MSF rate is pegged 100 basis points or a percentage point above 
the Repo Rate. Under this facility, banks can borrow funds up to one percentage of 
their net demand and time liabilities (NDTL)
(7)  Moral Suasion. It refers to a method adopted by the Central Bank to persuade or 
convince the commercial banks to advance credit in the economic interest of the 
country. In this process, the Central Bank requests or persuade the commercial banks 
to lend or credit to other banks or institutes in compliance with the general monetary 
policy of the central.
Ideally  short-term/volatile  liquidity  should  be  addressed  through  repo  auctions, 
medium-term liquidity through OMO and long-term liquidity through the CRR.
Reserve Bank of India addresses liquidity management and changes made to the 
CRR, SLR, repo rates as part of the annual monetary policy reviewed on a quarterly 
basis and rates revised keeping in view the liquidity position. An area of concern of 
the RBI in its policy is to keep a watch on inflation. While RBI role, besides liquidity 
management, controlling inflation, also acts as bankers to all  the  commercial  banks 
in the country.
15.6 DIRECTED LENDING OF RBI
Reserve Bank of India as a part of mass banking, mandates that lending by banks should also 
provide loans for agriculture, medium and small-scale sector industries and other critical 
sectors including to the weaker sections, known by RBI as ‘priority sector lending’. RBI BANKING 175
h as provided th e categori es which a re classified  as priority sect or lending by commerci al
ban ksin India.
Priority Secto rLending Norms
Priority Sect orinclud esth efollowing categories:
( i) Agriculture
( ii) Micr o,Sma lland Mediu mEnterprises
(i ii) Expo rtCredit
(i v) Education
( v) Housing
(v i) Soci alInfrastructure
(v ii) Renewab leEnergy
(vi ii)Others
Lending to farmer s, Se lf Help Grou ps and institutio ns engaged in agricultu re and allied 
secto rs iscovered und erdire ctand indire ctfinancing by banks.
Q  . Wh at a re th e Targe ts an d Sub-targe ts fo r bank s und er priority secto r ?
Th etarge tsand sub-targe tsf orban ksund erpriority sect ora re asfollows:
Categories Domest icschedule dcommerci albank s Foreig nbank s
(excluding Region alRur alBank san dSma ll wi thle sstha n2 0
Finan ceBank s)an dForeig nbank swi th2 0 branches
branch esan dabove
Tot alPriori ty 40 p erce nt ofAdjusted N etBank Cred it or 40 p erce nt of
Sector Cred itEquivale ntAmou nt ofOff-Balan ceShe et Adjusted N etBank 
Exposur e,whichev er ishigher. Cred it orCred it
Equivale ntAmou nt
 ofOff-Balan ceShe et
Exposur e,which­
ev er ishighe r,to b e
achieved in  aphased 
mann erby 2020.
Agriculture* 18 p erce nt ofANB C orCred itEquivale nt N otapplicable
Amou nt ofOff-Balan ceShe etExposur e,which­
ev er ishigher.
Within th e18 perce nt targ et f oragricultur e, a
targ et of8 perce nt ofANB C orCred itEquiv­
ale ntAmou nt ofOff-Balan ceShe etExposur e,
whichev er ishigh er isprescribed f orSma lland 
Margin alFarmers.176 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Micro Enterprises 7.5 percent of ANBC or Credit Equivalent Not applicable
Amount of Off-Balance Sheet Exposure, which­
ever is higher.
Advances to 10 percent of ANBC or Credit Equivalent Not applicable
Weaker Sections Amount of Off-Balance Sheet Exposure, which­
ever is higher
* Domestic banks have been directed to ensure that their overall direct lending to non-corporatc farmers does not
fall below the system-wide average of the last three years achievement.
Loans to individualsf ore ducationalpu rposesinc luding vocationalcou rsesup t o ₹10 la khs
                 
forstudiesin Indiaand ₹ 20 lakhsforstudiesin abroad areincluded underpriority sector.
Loansto individualsup to ₹ 25 lakhsin metropolitan centreswith population above10 
         
lakhsand ₹ 15 lakhsin othercentresforpurchase/construction ofadwelling unitperfamily 
               
excluding loanssanctioned to bank’sown employees.Whatisincluded underweakersections
             
underpriority sector?Priority sector loansto thefollowing borrowers areconsidered under
                 
weakersectionscategory:
     
• Smalland marginalfarmers.
     
• Artisans,villageand cottageindustrieswhereindividualcreditlimitsdo notexceed 
                   
50,000.
• Beneficiariesofswarnjayantigramswarozgaryojana(SGSY),nownationalrural
                     
livelihood mission (NRLM).
• Scheduled castesand scheduled tribes.
   
• Beneficiariesofdifferentialrateofinterest(DRJ)scheme.
               
• Beneficiariesunderswarnajayantishaharirozgaryojana(SJSRY).
               
• Beneficiariesundertheschemeforrehabilitation ofmanualscavengers(SRMS).
                 
• Loansto SHGs.
   
• Loansto distressed farmersindebted to non-institutionallenders.
       
• Loansto distressed personsotherthan farmersnotexceeding 50,000 perborrowerto 
               
prepay theirdebtto non-institutionallenders.
     
• Loansto individualwomen beneficiariesup to 50,000 perborrower.
         
As a part of directed lending, RBI stipulates that all domestic commercial banks and 
                       
foreign banks with branches more than twenty in India, should lend at least 40 per cent of
                 
their advances to priority sector as a whole (foreign banks with branches less than 20, this
                     
ratio is 36%). There are sub-targets of 18 per cent as agriculture lending and 10 per cent
                       
advancesto theweakersector,asapercentoftheirtotallending.
                     
RURALINFRASTRUCTUREDEVELOPMENTFUND(RlDF)
       
Banks which are not able to meet their targets of priority sector lending are required to 
                   
keep the shortfall in RIDF. The RIDF was set up by the government during 1995-1996 
                 
forfinancing ongoing ruralinfrastructureprojects.Thefund ismaintained by theNational
             BANKING 177
Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). Domestic commercial banks 
contribute to the fund to the extent of their shortfall in stipulated priority sector lending 
to agriculture.
The prime objective of the fund is to provide loans to the state governments and state- 
owned corporations to enable them to complete the ongoing rural infrastructure projects. 
The scope of RIDF has been widened to include activities such as rural drinking water 
schemes, soil conservation, rural market yards, rural health centres and primary schools, 
mini hydel plants, shishu shiksha kendras, anganwadis and system improvement in the 
power  sector.  From  RIDF  V  onwards,  the  ambit  was  extended  to  projects  which  are 
undertaken by panchayat raj institutions and projects in the social sector covering primary 
education, health and drinking water.
The  activities  to  be  financed  also  include  minor  irrigation  projects/micro  irrigation, 
flood  protection,  watershed  development/reclamation  of  waterlogged  areas,  drainage, 
forest development, market yard/go down, apna mandi, rural haats and other marketing 
infrastructure,  cold  storage,  seed/agriculture/horticulture  farms,  plantation  and 
horticulture, grading and certifying mechanisms such as testing and certifying laboratories, 
etc., community irrigation wells for irrigation purposes for the village as a whole, fisheries, 
animal husbandry and modern abattoirs.
15.8 OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK—PUBLIC SECTOR BANKS
There is a dominance of public sector banks even after two decades of financial sector 
reforms, though getting eroded by the growing private banks. Their ability to undertake 
large-scale lending for infrastructure, risk assessment and their mitigation capabilities are 
yet to be tested.
They are having issues of excessive manpower, ageing work force, ‘adopted’ technology 
but not their successful ‘assimilation, fairly risk averse, overwhelming security conscious­
ness and not able to reach the needy segment like the small-scale sector, despite well-in­
tentioned schemes both by the RBI as well as banks.
As  mentioned  previously,  their  efforts  at  financial  inclusion  has  been  far  from 
satisfactory and what is worrying is they still continue to look at it from a social and not as 
a commercial proposition. Too many nationalized banks of different sizes not allowing for 
their organized growth and one nationalized bank competing with the other.
India can be said to have survived the global financial sector crisis of 2007, largely 
perceived because of the public sector character, of not having the exposure to complex 
products and seen as a prudent banking. But the same public sector character has largely 
been responsible for not leading to expansion of banks in the same way as the private 
banks are expanding.
While India’s output is amongst the top five countries, none of the Indian public sector 
banks figure in thet op fifty bankso fth e wo rld.Th ereq uirementoft he futu rewou ld beforth em 
to bec omestrong erto serv eastheba ck bone  ofan ever gr owing ec onomy,through ap rocessof
c onsolidat ion ,shedding thei rrisk averseness (notto beseen a sunc ontrol led risk e xpansion but
judiciousrisk expo sure).  178 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
It may be premature at this stage to discuss of privatization, however, will become an 
imperative in future. This would be in the interests of the public sector banks and the 
economy as a whole, to meet the expanding growth through innovative products and over 
time emerge as global bank.
However,  at  the  same  time  a  regulatory  framework  by  the  RBI  with  an  oversight 
mechanism  which  is  where  RBI  has  scored  over  all  the  other  central  banks  in  other 
countries. Banking in India is still evolving and there is a need to achieve rapid banking 
penetration. There is also a need for some Indian banks to grow in size and act as global 
banks. The challenge will be in their ability to meet the needs of the economy, effectively. 
Their  role  in infrastructural  development and financial inclusion cannot be undermined 
and can also be said to critical.
Globally,  banking  is  the  fulcrum  of  an  economy  and  on  its  strengths;  economies 
achieve rapid economic growth and play the role of a facilitator in channelizing smooth 
flow of resources in terms of needs.
FINANCIAL INCLUSION
Banking also lacks penetration with as much as 60 per cent population outside the reach 
of  banks.  There  is  a  need  for  greater  ‘financial  inclusion’  that  is,  to  provide  banking 
products and services t o them assesesp ecially diepoo r,techn ology enabled,ataffo rd ableprices. 
Itisbel iev ed  thatthisisther easo nw  hyI n dianeedspublicse ctorba nks.Th econten tionm a ybe  
trueiffinancial incl usion  is  envisione d a sasocio- welfare measur e, similar to the prevailing  
concep tofprio rity sectorlending,at ac oncessional rate in Indiaf ort he neglected sect ions and 
agricu ltur e.S uch kind ofdirected l endingh asbeent h eresincebank swerenationalizedwi  ththe 
objec tiveof conver ting‘c la ss’into‘ma ss’bankin g.        
Access to safe,easy a nd a ffordable credit and ot her financial services bythe  poor and
vuln erable groups,d isadvantagedareas and  laggin g sectorsi s recognize dasapre ­co nditi onfor 
accelerati ng gr owth and  re ducing  incom  e dis pari ties andpoverty .In view  ofthis,F in a ncial
Inclusionhas beenidentified asakeyd imensiono ftheover  allstrategy  of“TowardsF asterand  
M oreIn clusiveGr owth"e nvisage dintheeleventhFiv e YearPl an (2007-12 ).       
                 
Financial inclusion is generally defined in terms of exclusion from the financial
system. A target group is considered  as finan cial ly excluded if they d o not have access to
mainstream  formal fin anc ial services  such as ban king  acc o unts, c redi t car ds,  insurance,  
paymen tse rvices ,etc.                
                 
Government of India had constituted a committee in 2006 under the chairmanship
   
         
ofDr.C.Rangarajan tostudythepattern ofexclusion fromaccesstofinancial servicesacross
                     
region,genderandoccupational structureandtoidentifythebarriersconfronted byvulnerable
                          
groupsinaccessingcreditandfinancialservicesandrecommend thestepsneededforfinancial
                         
inclusion.Thecommittee submitted itsreport inJanuary 2008.Thecommittee hasgiven a
                     
workingdefinitionoffinancialinclusionas;
                      
         BANKING 179
“Financial  inclusion  may  be  defined  as  the  process  of  ensuring  access  to  financial 
services and timely and adequate credit where needed by vulnerable groups such as weaker 
sections and low income groups at an affordable cost.”
Clearly, directed lending is seen more as a compulsion as have to be performed, rather 
than willingly lending to them. Seeing financial inclusion as a socio-welfare measure will 
ensure that it will never happen. It has to be seen as a commercial and viable business. The 
opportunity cost to the poor for raising money from money lenders is very high. They can 
become an important profitable venture for banks. Any private bank will be driven by the 
profitability angle, be it the rich or the poor segment.
The biggest issue is the ability to reach out to them through an organized finance route, 
besides the money lenders. The proliferation of MFIs in the private sector is an example of 
how the profit motive can drive reaching them.
However, this will require innovativeness as it may not be feasible nor practical or cost 
effective to open bank branches in all the villages. Various models can be considered and 
the private sector will find a way to reach them in a cost-effective manner, better than the 
public sector banks.
Today, technology has penetrated virtually every segment every walk of life then why 
not the poor people. Not long ago mobile phones were for the affluent and how now they 
have penetrated  al l classes  of the people .This is the  ingenuity  of businesses  ,of tapping 
opportunities wherever available, and making themp rofitable.
Financial inclusion is achieved when all individuals and businesses have access to and 
can effectively use a broad range of financial services that are provided responsibly, and at 
reasonable cost, by sustainable institutions in a well-regulated environment.
The essence of financial inclusion is in trying to ensure that a range of appropriate 
financial services is available to every individual and enabling them to understand and 
access those services.
In order to achieve a comprehensive financial inclusion, a slew of initiatives have been
taken  by  Government  of  India,  RBI  and  NABARD.  Some  of  the  important initiatives 
include; SHG-Bank Linkage programme, opening of No Frills Accounts, mobile banking, 
Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna etc.
Financial  inclusion  can  happen,  but  with  technology  and  seeing  it  as  a  business 
proposition rather than as a welfare measure. It is the biggest imperative today of linking 
the poor to banks as it can serve multiple objectives of first, access to organized source of 
finance for the poor, second getting them outside the clutches of the money lenders, third 
allowing the government to provide them with income support rather than subsidies and 
most importantly getting rid of all the middlemen. It is also seen as an integral aspect of 
inclusive growth of India in the future.
Benefits of Financial Inclusion
Financial  inclusion  enables  good  financial  decision  making  through  financial  literacy 
and qualified advice as also access to financial services for all, particularly the vulnerable 180 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
groups such as weaker sections, minorities, migrants, elderly, micro entrepreneurs and low 
income groups at an affordable cost so as to enable them to:
•  Manage their finances on day to day basis confidently, effectively and securely;
•  Plan for the future to protect themselves against short term variations in income and 
expenditure and for wealth creation and gaining from financial sector developments; 
and
•  Deal  with  financial  distress  effectively  thereby  reducing  their  vulnerability  to  the 
unexpected.
The United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) visualises financial services 
for poor and low-income people and micro and small enterprises as an important and 
integral component of the financial sector, each with its own comparative advantages, and 
each presenting the market with a business opportunity.
Despite the marked progress made in the direction of financial inclusion, the problem 
of exclusion still persist. For achieving the current policy stance of “inclusive growth” the 
focus on financial inclusion is not only essential but a pre-requisite. And for achieving 
comprehensive  financial  inclusion,  the  first  step  is  to  achieve  credit  inclusion  for  the 
disadvantaged and vulnerable sections of ours ociety.
15.10 SMALL FINANCE BANK
The Small Finance Bank (SFB) is a private financial institution intended to further 
the objective of financial inclusion by primarily undertaking basic banking activities of 
acceptance of deposits and lending to unserved sections including small business units, 
small and marginal farmers, micro and small industries and unorganised sector entities, 
but without any restriction in the area of operations, unlike Regional Rural Banks or Local 
Area Banks.
Small  Finance  Banks  were  created  pursuant  to  the  announcement  in Union  Budget 
2014-2015,  presented  on  July  10,  2014.  RBI  issued  the  guidelines  on  27th  November 
2014 for licensing and regulation of SFBs. On 16th September 2015, RBI decided to grant 
“in-principle” approval to 10 applicants to set up small finance banks to further push the 
agenda of financial inclusion.
The 10 entities that received the nod for small banks include, Au Financiers (Jaipur), 
Capital  Local  Area  Bank  (Jalandhar),  Disha  Microfin  (Ahmedabad),  Equitas  Holdings 
(Chennai),  ESAF  Microfinance  and  Investments  (Chennai),  Janalakshmi  Financial 
Services  (Bengaluru),  RGVN  (Northeast)  Microfinance  (Guwahati),  Suryoday  Micro 
Finance  (Navi  Mumbai),  Ujjivan  Financial  Services  (Bengaluru)  and  Utkarsh  Micro 
Finance (Varanasi).
The aforementioned banks were selected from a list of 72 applicants. Small finance 
banks will be allowed to take deposits from customers. And as against payments banks, 
small finance banks will also be allowed to lend money to people.
Most of  the  entities that have received the ‘in-principle’ nod include micro-finance 
institutions. Which means, most customers of small finance banks will account for small 
and medium enterprises and small businesses. These banks will now be able to provide BANKING 181
secured  and  legal loans  to MSMEs and SMEs,  bringing  them under the ambit of the 
financial system.
Small finance banks is another step to bring the unbanked under the ambit of the 
banking system. Small finance banks will provide banking products to the unserved and 
undeserved sections of the country, which includes small and marginal farmers, micro and 
small industries, and other organized sector entities, at an affordable cost.
RBI has created a framework for licencing small banks and other differentiated banks. 
Differentiated  banks  serving  niche  interests,  local  area  banks,  payment  banks  etc.  are 
contemplated to meet credit and remittance needs of small businesses, unorganized sector, 
low income households,f armersa nd migrantw ork force.
15.11 PAYMENTS BANKS
A payment bank is a differentiated bank that will undertake only certain restricted banking 
functions  that  the  Banking  Regualtion  Act  of  1949  allows.  These  activities  include 
acceptance of deposits, payments and remittance services, internet banking and function 
as busines correspondant of other banks. Initially, they are allowed to collect deposits up 
to Rs 1 lakh per individual.
They  can  facilitate  money  transfers  and  sell  insurance  and  mutual  funds.  Besides, 
they can issue ATM/debit cards, but not credit cards. They cannot set up subsidiaries 
to  undertake  non-banking  financial  services  activities.  More  importantly,  they  are  not 
allowed to undertake lending activities at all.
RBI released the list of entities which had applied for a payments bank licence on 
February 2015. There were 41 applicants. An External Advisory Committee (EAC) headed 
by  Nachiket  Mor  is  constituted  to  evaluate  the  licence  applications.  The  government 
decided that India Post will use its large network to run payments bank. The external 
advisory committee headed by Nachiket Mor submitted its findings on 6th July 2015. The 
applicant entities were examined for their financial track record and governance issues. 
The objective of payment banks will bring unbanked masses under the ambit of formal 
banking and also expedite financial inclusion. The spread of banking will also make the 
poor financially literate and help fight poverty. The establishment of payment banks is a 
significant and important step from the RBI. Payments banks will reach out to people in 
rural areas. Payments bank will ensure more money comes into banking system. Various 
banks are looking at increasing their rural reach, including big banks like SBI, payments 
banks will help them realise this objective.
The Reserve Bank of India gave “in-principle” licences to the following entities to 
launch payments banks:
•  Aditya Bir laN  uvo
•  Airtel M Commerce Services
•  Cholamandalam Distribution Services
•  Department of Posts
•  FINO PayTech
•  National Securities Depository
•  Reliance Industries182 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
•  Dilip Shanghvi, Sun Pharmaceuticals
•  Vijay Shekhar Sharma , Paytm
•  Tech Mahindra
•  Vodafone M-Pesa
Out of these, three have surrendered their licenses. First one being “Chalomandalam 
Distribution Services”, then “Dilip Shanghvi, Sun Pharmaceuticals” and the latest, “Tech 
Mahindra”. The “in-principle” license is valid for 18 months within which the entities 
must fulfill the requirements. They are not allowed to engage in banking activities within 
the period. The RBI will consider grant full licenses under Section 22 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 , after it is satisfied that the conditions have been fulfilled.
The Payments Bank are proposed to be registered as a public limited company under 
the Companies Act, 2013, and licensed under Section 22 of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949, with specific licensing conditions restricting its activities to acceptance of demand 
deposits and provision of payments and remittance services. It will be governed by the 
provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, Foreign 
Exchange  Management  Act,  1999,  Payment  and  Settlement  Systems  Act,  2007,  other 
relevant Statutes and Directives, Prudential Regulations and other Guidclines/Instructions 
issued by RBI and other regulators from time to rime, including the regulations of the 
securities market regulator, SEBI, regarding public issues and other guidelines applicable 
to listed banking companies.
With differentiated banks entering the banking space, the biggies like SBI, ICICI Bank 
etc. feel the jitters.These banks will function only in specific areas. The major banks can 
actually make use of these banks to spread their reach as payment banks are allowed to 
function as business correspondents too. Some of them have already tied up with existing 
licence holders.
D-SIBs
Recently RBI listed HDFC as Domestic - Systematically Important Bank (DSIB) under 
the bucket structure identified last year.
The Domestic- Systematically Important Banks (DSIBs):
•  DSIBs are also referred to as “Too Big To Fail” (TBTF) because of their size, cross- 
jurisdictional activities, complexity and lack of substitute and interconnection.
•  Banks whose assets cross 2% of the GDP are considered DSIBs. If these banks fail, 
they can have a disruptive effect on the economy.
•  D-SIBs are categorised under five buckets.
•  According to these buckets the banks have to keep aside die Additional Common 
Equity Tier 1 as a percentage of Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs).
•  D-SIBs are closely monitored by the central bank to ensure their better functioning 
and prevent the indulgence of such banks in any grey areas such as money laundering 
etc.
•  They are domestically identified by Central Banks of a country and globally by BASEL 
committee on banking supervision.BANKING 183
15.12 GOLD INVESTMENTS SCHEME
Union Government had launched Sovereign Gold Bonds and Gold Monetisation Schemes 
on 5th November, 2015. The main objectives of the schemes are to reduce the demand 
for physical gold and shift a part of the gold imported every year for investment purposes 
into financial savings.
Sovereign Gold Bonds
These are issued by RBI on behalf of the Government of India in rupees and denominated 
in grams of gold and restricted for sale to the resident Indian entities only both in demat 
and paper form. The minimum and maximum investment limits are two grams and 500 
grams of gold per person per fiscal year respectively. The rate of interest for the year 2015- 
16 is 2.75 per cent per annum, payable on a half yearly basis. The tenor of the Bond is 
for a period of 8 years with exit option from 5th year onwards. KYC norms are the same 
as that for gold. Exemption from capital gains tax is also available. Redemption is made 
in the rupee value equivalent to the price of gold at the time of maturity. In the first two 
tranche ofS GBto talsu bscription of37 88 kilograms of gol d amounting to ₹993  crorewere 
recei ved fromabout 3.90 l akh applications.
Gold Monetisation Scheme
The Gold Monetization Scheme is a welcome step initiated by the Government of India to 
unlock the unused and idle gold lying in households and institutions and bring them into 
mainstream and release the capital locked in for use in the economy for its development. 
The key objectives of this scheme are stated as under:
•  To mobilize the gold held by households and institutions in the country.
•  To provide a fillip to the gems and jewellery sector in the country by making gold 
available as raw material on loan from the banks.
•  To be able to reduce reliance on import of gold over time to meet the domestic demand. 
The gold mobilization scheme is likely to work according to the draft guidelines:
1. The scheme is meant to mobilize gold held by domestic households and institutions. 
Gold collected through the scheme will be made available to jewellers for manufacturing 
of new jewellery and other items.
2. The scheme will initially be launched at a few places because the government will have 
to first set-up infrastructure for facilitating easy and secure handling of gold. 
3. Gold collected from consumers will first be cleaned and measured at test centres; it
would then be melted to test for purity. After the tests, consumers can either deposit 
the gold for a fee or take it back after paying a nominal fee.
4.  The minimum quantity of gold that a customer can bring is proposed to be set at 30 
grams.
5.  Those willing to deposit the gold will be given a certificate mentioning the amount 
and purity of the deposited gold. Banks will open a ‘Gold Savings Account’ on the 
basis of such certificates.184 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Consumers will be paid interest on their gold savings account after 30/60 days of 
6.
account opening. The amount of interest rate to be given is proposed to be left to the 
banks to decide.
7. Both principal and interest will be paid to the depositors of gold, will be valued’ in 
gold. For example: if a customer deposits 100 gms of gold and gets 1 per cent interest, 
then, on maturity he has a credit of 101 gms.
8. The customer willh aveth e o ption ofre demption eitherin  cash orin g old,whic h willhave 
to be exerci sed in thebeginn ing itself(thatis, atthe tim e ofm aking  th edeposit).T hetenure 
9.                            
ofthe depositwillbeminimum 1 yearand in multiples ofoneyear.Likeafixed deposit,
         
breaking oflocking period willbeallowed.
10. Gold savings account will be exempt from capital gains tax, wealth tax and income tax.
According co che government, gold deposit accounts will utilise the 20,000 tonnes 
available within the country and help in cutting down the 800-1,000 tonnes of gold the 
country ships every year. Among the regulatory issues for banks, it said some certainty on 
use the gold deposits as part of their Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and Statutory Liquidity’ 
Ratio (SLR) requirements would be helpful. Irrespective of the difficulties, it underscored 
that the scheme holds great benefits on the macro front, saying, it can lower gold imports by 
bringing into circulation domestically-held idle gold, thus, helping the external balances. 
Additionally, the easy availability of the precious metal can reduce costs for jewellers and 
increase the exports. Seeking to mobilise idle gold worth up to Rs 60 lakh crore held by 
households  and  institutions,  the  government  proposed  a  new  scheme  offering  tax-free 
interest on depositing the yellow metal with banks. The draft of gold monetisation scheme 
also provides for incentives to the banks. Individuals and institutions can deposit as low as 
30 gms of gold, while the interest earned on it would be exempt from income tax as well 
as capital gains tax.
The government can partly address the problem to a certain extent by making invoices 
mandatory only for gold brought in the form of bars or coins and not necessarily for 
household  ornaments.  The  banks  can  track  the  transaction  with  sufficient  proofs  on 
address and identity. In case, the quantity exceeds a particular limit, even on ornaments, 
questions can be raised. Unless the government structures the GMS carefully, the fate of 
the scheme cannotb ef ard ifferentf romth ato fit sol derve rsion.
15.13 BANKING RELATED INITIATIVES
NPA
What are NPAs
A non performing asset (NPA) is a loan or advance for which the principal or interest 
payment remained overdue for a period of 90 days. Banks are required to classify NPAs 
further into Substandard, Doubtful and Loss assets.
1. Substandard assets: Assets which has remained NPA for a period less than or equal to
12 months.BANKING 185
2.  Doubtful assets: An asset would be classified as doubtful if it has remained in the 
substandard category for a period of 12 months.
3.  Loss assets: As per RBI, “Loss asset is considered uncollectible and of such little value 
that its continuance as a bankable asset is not warranted, although there may be some 
salvage or recovery value.”
Status of NPA
NPA  problem  is  one  of  the  most  severe  plaguing  the  Indian  Banking  sector  posing 
questions overt hes tabilityof In dianBa nkingSys tem.Rag huramRaja n,the ex  Go ver norofRBI 
ha siden tifie d theNP A pro blem asamajo r ch al lenge  facing the I ndian Bank  ing Sect or.The
problem  wh ichwasl a rgelyhidde  nearlie rasBanksused to dow in  dow  dressingofthei r account
sta temen t hasno wcometo thef or efr ont aft erRaja nexhor ted  theb a nkstoclean upth ei r asset 
booksbyMarc h 2017 . Result antly thisle dto2 9 pu blic  sectorb ankswriting off Rs  1.14  Lakh  
Crore ofbad  de btsb etween2013- 2 0 15,m uchm orethan  whatthey had donein  the p recedin g9 
years.        
•  The gross bad loanso f3 9 listed Indian banks,in  absolute ter m,ros e92%  in fi scalyear 
2016  to Rs.5.79 trillion even asafterpr ovisio ning,thenetb ad l oans morethan  doubl ed to 
Rs.3.38 trillion.
•  In percentage terms, the average gross non-performing assets (NPAs) of this group of 
banks rose from 4.41% of loans in 2015 to 7.91% in 2016; net NPAs in the past one 
year rose from 2.45% to 4.63%.
•  Public sector banks, which have close to 70% market share of loans, are more affected 
than  their  private  sector  peers.  Two  of  them  have  over  15%  gross  NPAs  and  an 
additional eight close to 10% and more.
SARFAESI Act
The Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security 
Interest (SARFAESI) Act, 2002 is a legislation that helps financial institutions to ensure 
asset quality in multiple ways. This means that the Act was framed to address the problem of 
NPAs (Non-Performing Assets) or bad assets through different processes and mechanisms.
The SARFAESI Act gives detailed provisions for the formation and activities of Asset 
Securitization  Companies  (SCs)and  Reconstruction  Companies  (RCs).  Scope  of  their 
activities, capital requirements, funding etc. are given by the Act. RBI is the regulator for 
these institutions.
As legal mechanism to insulate assets, the Act addresses the interests of secured
creditors (like banks). Several provisions of the Act give directives and powers to various 
institutions to manage the bad asset problem. Following are the main objectives of the 
SARFAESI Act.
•  The Act provides the legal framework for securitization activities in India
•  It gives the procedures for the transfer of NPAs to asset reconstruction companies for 
the reconstruction of the assets.
•  The Act enforces the security interest without Court’s intervention
•  The Act give powers to banks and financial institutions to take over the immovable 
property that is hypothecated or charged to enforce the recovery of debt.186 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI)
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) has amended its Corporate Insolvency 
Resolution Process Regulations to ensure that as part of due diligence, prior to approval 
of a Resolution Plan, the antecedents, credit worthiness and credibility of a Resolution 
Applicant, including promoters, arc taken into account by the Committee of Creditors.
Insolvency and  Bankruptcy  Board  of  India was set  up on 1st October 2016 under 
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (Code). It is a unique regulator: regulates a 
profession as well as transactions.
Functions:
•  It has regulatory oversight over the Insolvency Professionals, Insolvency Professional 
Agencies and Information Utilities.
•  It writes and enforces rules for transactions, namely, corporate insolvency resolution, 
corporate  liquidation,  individual  insolvency  resolution  and  individual  bankruptcy 
under the Code.
•  It is a key pillar of the ecosystem responsible for implementation of the Code that 
consolidates and amends the laws relating to reorganization and insolvency resolution 
of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals.
•  This is done in a time bound manner for maximization of the value of assets of such 
persons, to promote entrepreneurship, availability of credit and balance the interests 
of all the stakeholders.
Organizational structure of IBBI:
The IBBI has a ten-member board including a Chairman. Following is the structure of 
the IBBI:
•  One Chairperson.
•  Three  members  from  Central  Government  officers  not  below  the  rank  of  Joint 
Secretary or equivalent.
•  One nominated member from the RBI.
•  Five members nominated by the Central Government; of these, three shall be whole­
time members.
Indradhanush Plan
The Public Sector Banks (PSBs) play a vital role in India’s economy. In the past few years, 
because of a variety of legacy issues including the delay caused in various approvals as 
well as land acquisition etc., and also because of low global and domestic demand, many 
large  projects  have  stalled.  Public  Sector  Banks  which  have  got  predominant  share  of 
infrastructure financing have been sorely affected. It has resulted in lower profitability for 
PSBs, mainly due to provisioning for the restructured projects as well as for gross NPAs. 
Indradhanush  Plan  for  revamping  Public  Sector  Banks  (PSBs),  announced  by  the 
Government on 14.8.2015, envisaged capital infusion by the Government of Rs. 70,000 
crore. Under Indradhanush, Government infused capital of Rs. 51,858crorc, till the first 
half of the financial year (FY) 2017-18.BANKING 187
The 7 elements includes:
1.Appointments
2.Bank Board Bureau
3.Capitalizatio
4.De-Stressing Public Sector Banks
5.Empowerment
6.Framework of accountability
7.Governance Reforms
1. Appointment:  The  Government  decided  to  separate  the  post  of  Chairman  and 
Managing Director by prescribing that in the subsequent vacancies to be filled up 
the CEO will get the designation of MD & CEO and there would be another person 
who would be appointed as non-Executivc Chairman of PSBs. This approach is based 
on global best practices and as per the guidelines in the Companies Act to ensure 
appropriate checks and balances. The selection process for both these positions has 
been transparent and meritocratic. The entire process of selection for MD & CEO 
was revamped. Private sector candidates were also allowed to apply for the position of 
MD & CEO of the five top banks i.e. Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Bank 
of India, IDBI Bank and Canara Bank.
2. Bank Board Bureau: The BBB will be a body of eminent professionals and officials, 
which  will  replace  the  Appointments  Board  for  appointment  of  Whole-time 
Directors as well as non-Executive Chairman of PSBs. They will also constantly 
engage with the Board of Directors of all the PSBs to formulate appropriate strategies 
for their growth and development.
The structure of the BBB is going to be as follows:
•  The BBB will comprise of a Chairman and six more members of whom three 
will be officials and three experts (of which two would necessarily be from the 
banking sector).
•  The Search Committee for members of the BBB would comprise of the Governor, 
RBI and Secretary (FS) and Secretary (DoPT) as members.
•  The BBB would broadly follow the selection methodology as approved in relevant 
ACC guidelines.
The  Bank  Board  Bureau  will  start  functioning  from  the  next  financial  year  and 
is  the  first  step  toward  a  full-fledged  bank  holding  company,  an  entity  that  will 
house the  governments  stake in state  run banks s truggling  with mounting  non­
performing loans that have touched 6 perc ento fg rossa dvances.
3. Capitalization:  The  government  will  inject  a  total  of  Rs  25,000  crore  of  capital 
into debt-laden state banks in this fiscal; Rs 20,000 crore would be injected in a 
month. Over the next four years, the government plans to inject Rs 70,000 crore. 
4. De-stressing:  The  government  will  concentrate  on  distressing  the  banks’  bad 
loans.
5. Empowerment:  Government  has  said  that  it  will  not  interfere  in  the  functioning 
of  public  sector  banks  and  encouraged  them  to  take  decisions  independently; 
keeping the commercial interest of the organization in mind. A clearer distinction188 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
between  interference  and  intervention  has  been  made.  With  autonomy  comes 
accountability,  accordingly  Banks  have  been  asked  to  build  robust  Grievances 
Redressal Mechanism for customers as well as staff so that concerns of the affected 
are  addressed  effectively  in  time  bound  manner.  The  government  will  strive 
to  make  it  easier  for  PSBs  to  hire.  Hie  government  is  looking  at  introducing 
Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOPs) for the PSU bank managements.
6.  Framework  of  Accountability:  The  government  also  announced  a  new 
framework  of  key  performance  indicators  for  state-run  lenders  to  boost  efficiency 
in functioning while assuring them of independence in decision making on purely 
commercial  considerations,  (a)  The  present system for  the measurement  of bank’s 
performance  was  a  system  called  Sol  —Statement  of  Intent.  Based  on  certain 
criteria  decided  by  Ministry  of  Finance,  the  banks  used  to  come  up  with  their 
annual  target  figures  which  was  discussed  between  the  Ministry  and  banks  and 
finalized. The entire exercise took very long and sometimes the targets for banks 
used to be finalized only towards the end of the year which is not a desirable thing 
to do.
7.  Governance  Reforms:  The  process  of  governance  reforms  started  with  “Gyan 
Sangam”  -  a  conclave  of  PSBs  and  FIs  organized  at  the  beginning  of  2015  in 
Pune  which  was  attended  by  all  stake-holders  including  Prime  Minister,  Finance 
Minister, MoS (Finance), Governor, RBI and CMDs of all PSBs and FIs. There was 
focus group discussion on six different topics which resulted in specific decisions 
on  optimizing  capital,  digitizing  processes,  strengthening  risk  management, 
improving  managerial  performance  and  financial  inclusion.  Continuing  with  this 
year’s  Gyan  Sangam,  next  Gyan  Sangam  will  be  held  between  14-16.01.2016  to 
discuss strategy with top level officials.
The Indradhanush framework for transforming the PSBs represents the most comprehensive 
reform effort undertaken since banking nationalisation in the year 1970. Our PSBs are 
now ready to compete and flourish in a fast-evolving financial services landscape.
PARA
Economic Survey2 016-17 suggestsse ttingup of a centralised Public Sector Asset Rehabilition Agency 
The Agencyw illlo okaft erthe larg est,most diffic ultCases ,and ma kePolitica llyTough D ecisionsto reduce 
Debt.  
The  Economic  Survey  shows  that  our  country  has  been  trying  to  solve  its  'Twin 
Balance  SZwf(TBS)  problem  -  overleveraged  companies  and  bad-loan-encumbered 
banks,  a  legacy  of  the  boom  years  around  the  Global  Financial  Crisis.  So  far,  there 
has  been  limited  success.  The  problem  has  consequently  continued  to  fester:  Non­
Performing  Assets  (NPAs)  of the banking  system  (and especially public  sector  banks) 
keep increasing, while credit and investment keep falling. Now it is time to consider a 
different  approach  -  a  centralised  Public  Sector  Asset  Rehabilitation  Agency  (PARA) 
that could take  charge  of  the largest,  most  difficult cases,  and  make  politically  tough 
decisions to reduce debt.BANKING 189
As per the  Survey, gross NPAs has climbed to almost 12 per cent of gross advances for 
public sector banks ate nd-September 2 016.A tth isle vel,In dia’sNP Arat io ishig herthan  any 
othermajo remer ging market,with  theexcept ion ofRussia .Thecon sequ ent squeeze ofbanks 
ha sled th emt o slowcre ditgrow th to c rucialsectors-espe cially to industry and medium and 
small sc ale enterpr ises  (MSMEs )- to levels unseen ov er thepast t wo  deca des .Asthis has 
occu rred ,growth i n privateand overa llinvestmen thasturned  nega tive.Adecisiver eso lution is 
urgently nee ded beforetheTBSprob lem beco mesaser iousdrag  o n growt h.
15.14 MERGER OF SBI ASSOCIATES WITH STATE BANK OF 
INDIA (SBI)
Government has approved the proposal for merger of State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur 
(SBBJ), State Bank of Hyderabad (SBH), Stare Bank of Mysore (SBM), State Bank of 
Patiala (SBP) and State Bank ofTravancore (SBT) with State Bank of India (SBI). The 
merger has come in effect from 1st April, 2017. The Bharatiya Mahila Bank is also now 
stands merged with SBI.
               
 
   
 
 
 
                 
   
 
     
     
     
 
                   
             
                 
             
               
           
           
 
 
 
     
    CHAPTER16
INFLATION
MEANING AND MEASURING INFLATION
Right in the first chapter, a reference was made to output of an economy has always to be 
adjusted for inflation. That is the monetary value of output tends to increase in periods 
of inflation-rising prices. In simple terms inflation refers to situation when prices in an 
economy tend to increase.
Inflation
Inflation is the measure of the rate of increase in the prices of goods and services. However, 
when there is a decrease in the rate it is called deflation.
In India CPI (combined) is declared as the new standard for measuring inflation. CPI
numbers are typically measured monthly, and with a significant lag . India uses changes 
the CPI to measure its rate of inflation.
WPI
Wholesale Price Index (WPI) is measured on weekly basis. The first index of wholesale 
prices commenced in India for the week January 10, 1942. The base year of WPI is revised 
periodically. The Wholesale Price Index (WPI) series in India has undergone six revisions 
in 1952-53, 1961-62, 1970-71, 1981-82, 1993-94 and 2004-05 so far. The current series 
is the seventh revision. The revision entails shifting the base year to 2011-12 from 2004- 
05, changing the basket of commodities and assigning new weights to the commodities.
For determining WPI, commodities are divided into three categories - Primary Articles 
(102 items), Fuel & Power (19 items), and Manufactured Products (555 items). As you 
can see, the weight assigned to manufacturing is highest at 82% followed by primary 
articles like fruits and vegetables.
CPI
Consumer Price Indices (CPI) measure changes over time in general level of prices of 
goods and services that households acquire for the purpose of consumption. CPI is widely 
used as a macroeconomic indicator of inflation, as a tool by governments and central INFLATION 191
banks for inflation targeting and for monitoring price stability, and as deflators in the 
national  accounts.  CPI  is  also  used  for  indexing  dearness  allowance  to  employees  for 
increase in prices.
The  Central  Statistics  Office  (CSO),  Ministry  of  Statistics  and  Programme 
Implementation  has  revised  the  Base  Year  of  the  Consumer  Price  Index  (CPI)  from 
2010=100 to 2012=100 with effect from the release of indices for the month of January, 
2015. The earliers erieso n Base2 010=100 wass tarted w.e.fJ anuary'2 011.
Unlike WPI, there is not a single measure of CPI. In India, four CPI indices are used 
to determine inflation at the consumer level. These are: CPI-IW (Industrial Worker), CPI- 
UNME (Urban Non-Manual Employees), CPI-AL (Agricultural Labourers), and CP1-RL 
(Rural Labourers).
IIP
The Index of Industrial Production (IIP) is an index which shows the growth rates in 
different industry groups of the economy in a stipulated period of time. The IIP index 
is computed and published by the Central Statistical Organisation (CSO) on a monthly 
basis.
                       
Description: IIP is a composite indicator that measuresthegrowth rate of industry groups
classified under,
       
1. Broad sectors,namely,Mining,Manufacturing and Electricity
             
2. Use-based sectors,namely BasicGoods,CapitalGoodsand IntermediateGoods.
               
IndexofEightCoreIndustries(Base:2011-12=100)
                         
Tlie Eight Core Industries comprise 40.27 per cent of the weight of items included in the
               
Index ofIndustrialProduction (IIP).Theeightcoreindustriesare:-
       
• CoalCoalproduction (weight:10.33 %)
           
• CrudeOilCrudeOilproduction (weight:8.98 %)
             
• NaturalGasTheNaturalGasproduction (weight:6.88 %)
       
• Refinery ProductsPetroleumRefinery production (weight:28.04%)
       
• FertilizersFertilizerproduction (weight:2.63 %)
       
• SteelSteelproduction (weight:17.92 %)
       
• CementCementproduction (weight:5.37%)
   
• Electricity Electricity generation (weight:19.85%)
                   
Revision of base year of All-India Wholesale Price Index  (WPI) from 2004-05  to
2011-12
               
TheGovernment periodically  reviews and revises thebase yearofthemacroeconomic
                   
indicators asaregularexerciseto capturestructural changesin theeconomy and improve the
                       
quality,coverage and representativeness ofdieindices.In thisdirection,thebaseyearofAll-
                 
IndiaWPIhasbeen revised from2004-05 to 2011-12 by theOfficeofEconomicAdvisor(OEA
               
),Department ofIndustrial Policy and Promotion,Ministry ofCommerce and Industry to 
                   
align itwith thebaseyearofothermacroeconomicindicatorsliketheGrossDomesticProduct(
           
GDP)and Index ofIndustrialProduction (IIP).192 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
It has generally been the practice to undertake the revisions on the advice of a Working 
Group  constituted  each  time.  For  the  new  series  with  base  2011-12=100,  a  Working 
Group  was  constituted  on  19th  March  2012  chaired  by  Late  Dr.  Saumitra  Chaudhuri, 
Member, erstwhile Planning Commission and comprised most stakeholders.
Key Highlights:
In the revised series, WPI will continue to constitute three Major Groups namely Primary 
Articles,  Fuel  &  Power  and  Manufactured  Products.  Highlights  of  the  changes 
introduced in the new series are summarized below:
•  Updated  item  basket  and  weighting  structure  conforming  to  the  structure  of 
economy in 2011-12.
•  Increase in number of items from 676 to 697. In all 199 new items have been added 
and 146 old items have been dropped.
•  The new series is more representative with increase in number of quotations from 
5482 to 8331, an increase by 2849 quotations (52%).
New Features
•  In the new series of WPI, prices used for compilation do not include indirect taxes in 
order  to  remove  impact  of  fiscal  policy.  This  is  in  consonance  with  international 
practices and will make the new WPI conceptually closer to ‘Producer Price Index*.
•  A new “WPI Food Index” will be compiled to capture the rate of inflation in food 
items.
•  Item  level  aggregates  for  new  WPI  are  compiled  using  Geometric  Mean  (GM) 
following international best practice and as is currently used for compilation of All 
India CPI.
•  A high level Technical Review Committee has been set up for the first time to carry 
out dynamic review process in order to keep pace with the changing structure of the 
economy.
WPI Food Index
new “Food Index  is  being  compiled  combining  the  “Food  Articles”  under  “Primary 
>
Articles and “Food Products” under “Manufactured Products”. Together with the
Consumer Food Price Index released by Central Statistics Office, this would help monitor 
the price situation of food items better.
Some other measures of inflation are the core inflation’ which refers to price increase 
excluding that of volatile fluctuation in prices of food and energy. This measure can also be 
known as ‘structural inflation*. The other is ‘food inflation’ which is increase in food prices.
Yet  another  measure  is  ‘imported  inflation  wherein  prices  of  imports  contribute  to 
inflation like increase in crude petroleum prices leading to increased fuel prices and it 
results in overall increase in prices.
Besides these, various economists have coined different kinds of inflation based on the 
degree of rate of increase in prices like:
•  Hyper or runaway inflation (averaging 100 per cent in three years).
•  Galloping inflation (inflation increasing in arithmetic or geometric progression).
•  Creeping inflation (gradual increase in price are seen as good for economies).INFLATION 193
•  Dis-inflation (reduced rates of increase in prices).
•  Deflation (inflation turning negative and prices falling).
Demand-pull  Inflation  This  inflation  occurs  when  aggregate  demand  increases  at 
a faster rate than aggregate supply. This type of inflation will typically occur when the 
economy is growing faster than the long run trend rate of growth. If demand exceeds 
supply, the prices of commodities rise.
Cost-push Inflation. This inflation occurs when there is an increase in the cost of 
production for firms. Cost-push inflation could be caused by rising energy and commodity 
prices.
Fall Out of Inflation
It is said that a mild dose of price rise is good for an economy like creeping inflation as 
it provides incentive to producers in an economy to produce more, thereby more output 
and income in an economy. The increased income enables the people to bear the modest 
increase in prices.
However, once rate of increase in price rise is more than the increase in income it begins 
to hurt, especially the poor who are hit the hardest. Essential items of consumption get 
out of reach of a majority of people. To maintain the same standards, living people have to 
spend more in inflationary period, very often they have to dip into their savings. Protracted 
periods of continuous inflation can damage the fabric of the economy and experience in 
the past has shown that inflation has led to the downfall of many governments in different 
countries.
Why Prices Increase?
It is simply because demand is more than what is being supplied and accordingly could 
be demand-driven as demand-pull inflation or driven from the supply side as either as 
cost push inflation. However, in inflationary period both reinforce each other, difficult to 
distinguish which is the cause and which is the effect. Demand-pull inflation can occur 
because of the following reasons:
(1)  Increasing population and a natural increase in demands of goods in an economy.
(2)  Increase in income levels leads to increasing purchasing power of people to purchase 
more goods.
(3)  Consumerism in the economy when people believe in spending money rather than 
saving.
(4)  Increase in money supply and liquidity in the economy.
A demand in the economy is said to be good provided there are no supply constraints 
because if supply is not able to adjust by expansion it will lead to demand-pull inflation.
Some of the major aspects on the supply side in India are as follows:
(1)  Food grains production has virtually become stagnant creating a severe demand supply 
mismatch and similarly for other agricultural products. It may not be out of place to say194 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
that rising food prices is essentially a supply issue. In the past the problem of inflation 
was on account of shortage of food grains, but in recent times it is essentially on account 
daily consumables of fruits, vegetables etc.
(2)  Excessive monsoon dependence of the agricultural sector and the weather has a large 
role in augmenting supply.
(3)  India also has problems in the supply chain and involvement of too many middlemen 
disrupting supply and creating an artificial shortage in the agricultural sector.
(4)  Supply of key industrial goods such as electricity, steel, cement hampers adjustment 
of supply to the increased demand.
(5)  Despite the policy of liberalization and the freedom given to the private sector it is 
not relatively easy to make the supply flexible enough in the short-term which would 
potentially become inflationary.
(6)  Increased prices of raw materials, labour, etc., increase the cost of production giving 
rise to cost-push inflation.
Traditionally  measures  of  inflationary  control  are  seen  from  three  angles  as  explained 
below:
One,  as  a  monetary  phenomenon  of  increased  liquidity  with  the  banks,  increasing 
money supply, leading to ‘too much money chasing too few goods' results in a price rise of 
commodities or inflation. Controlling such liquidity is within the domain of RBI through 
policy tools such as CRR, SLR, OMO, Repo auctions (refer to the Chapter on Banking 
to refresh).
Secondly, being seen as fiscal, through expenditure and tax measures and from the 
supply side which is essentially in respect of agricultural products, which may arise due to 
genuine production bottlenecks or distribution bottlenecks or speculation and hoardings. 
It is simple to segregate as above but once inflation sets in all the above, it is difficult to say 
which is the cause and all get interrelated.
It can thus be seen that inflation is multi-dimensional and cannot be tackled through 
one policy tool but through a combination of strategies aimed at the supply side especially 
in the agricultural sector. Therein, is the challenge for the government that once inflation 
sets in, all efforts at taming inflation will always fall short of expectation.
At a still broader level, inflation is also about the perception which people in general 
hold in the ability of the government to maintain price stability. As if one is unsure of the 
prices tomorrow, one will stock up today. And if ones apprehensions come out true it will 
lead to more stocking. Imagine this situation if everyone in the economy starts to behave 
similarly. No matter what the government does it will not be able to prevent rising prices 
for that good and this invariably happens in periods of inflation.
It often said that no government would not like to lift the lid of inflation, as containing 
it, is always a stiff challenge for the government and inflation leaves a scar in the minds of 
people which are difficult to remove.
There are structuralp roblemsli keri sing incomeof the  poo rthro ugh theNRE GAand o ther
such  income,gener ation activities forth epo orw hich  isbound t o increase demand  forfood 
item  sand given  thenearstagnan cy in  agriculturalproduction bui ld inflationary INFLATION 195
pressures again. It is solely a matter of time when inflation would resurface and continue 
to haunt the government unless serious measures are taken to address the stagnancy issue 
in the agricultural sector.
                     
       
                       
               
                   
   
           
 
 
 
     
 
   
 
   
 
 
                     
 
 
 
     
    CHAPTER17
 
CAPITAL MARKET
17.1.CAP ITALMARKET
Requirement  of  capital  is  an  absolute  necessity  for  any  economic  activity  to  sustain. 
Infusing the adequate and required liquidity to the commercial ventures determines the 
intended success or failures. Here comes the need for an active and alert mechanism to 
fulfill these needs of the industry and other ventures.
Capital Market has to be seen in this context. It provides a platform whereby, the 
people who required investment and those who are willing to invest are coming together 
and satisfying their respective need and requirements.
There are various mechanisms through which the capital requirements of any venture 
can be accomplished.
Share capital
It is a portion of the share capital of the company. It is a unit into which the capital 
of company is divided. A person who has subscribed it is called as shareholder of that 
company and is regarded as the part of owner of the company.
Debentures
It is a long term borrowed funds of the company from those who have subscribed it. It has 
fixed maturity period as well as fixed interest rate.
Bonds
Bonds are commonly known as the long term borrowed funds of the government and also 
companies. Bonds fetches fixed rate of interest along with fixed maturity period.
Derivatives
It is a contract between parties whose value is based on an underlying financial asset. Such 
underlying instruments include bonds, commodities, currencies, stocks etc.CAPITA LMARKET 197
17.2 DISINTERMEDIATION
 It is easy to reca ll th at w e had discussed abo ut bank  as a financi al intermediary between 
th e peop le and  th e econom y. Wh at w ill happen  when  th is intermediar y'  is removed 
and th e compani es a re allowed to directly rai se money fro m th e publi c? It is known  as
‘disintermediation  facilitated  by  th e capit al mark et which  mean  compani es can  rai se
money directly fro mth epubl icthrough issuan ce ofshar esand bonds.
Shar es provid e ownership  in  compani es and  they  a re boug ht f or trading  purpose s,
whi le bon ds carry th e fixed intere st payab le every ye ar by th e compan y. Compani es raising 
money f or th e fir st tim e by th e issuan ce  of shar es a re known  as initi al publ ic offering 
(IPO  ) and  tho se coming  o ut subsequently  again  a re known  as follo w on  publ ic off er
(FPO ). A ll IPO s, FPO s, bond issued  by th e compani es a re known  as primary  mark et
operations.
STOC KEXCHANGES.
Stock Exchang es a re th e plac es whe re trading  of stoc ks and shar es a re facilitate d. Following 
a reth ecurrently functioning stock exchang eslocated  atvario uspa rt ofIndia.
  • Bombay Stock Exchang e(BSE)
  • Calcut taStock Exchang e(CSE)
  • Nation alStock Exchang e(NSE)
  • Magadh Stock Exchang e(MSE)
  • Ind iaInternation alExchang e(Ind iaINX)
  • Indian Commodity Exchang eLimited.
  • Mu ltiCommodity Exchang e ofInd iaLtd.
  • Nation alCommodity  &Derivativ esExchang eLtd.
VARIOU SINDICE SO FSTOC KMARKET.
Th e health and functioning  of capit al mark et and through which th e direction  of nation al
economi cs issensed through vario usindic es ofstock market.
BS ESENSEX
 It is an index th at compris es of equity shar es of 30 financially strong and well-established 
companie s. Th e selection  of the se compani es a re mad e on th e bas is of vario us facto rs such 
 asliquidit y,dept h,industry representation etc.
NS ENIFTY
Th e Nifty  is an indicat or  of a ll th e 50 maj or compani es listed on NS E (Nation al Stock 
Exchang e) and  it is considered  as a benchmark  stock  mark et index  f or Indian  equity 
market.198 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
iCOMDEX
It  is  a  recently  launched  India’s  first  co-branded  commodity  index  series,  This  index 
consists of commodities like Base Metals, Bullion, Gold, Copper and Crude Oil.
CriSidEx
This Index is the India’s first sentiment index for micro and small enterprises ( MSEs) 
developed jointly by CRISIL & SIDB1. CriSidEx is a composite index based on different 
parameters and measures MSE business sentiment.
ROLE OF SECURITIES EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SEBI)
All  such  issuances  in  terms  of  quantum  to  be  raised,  pricing  is  left  to  the  company, 
however,  regulated  by  the  Securities  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  which  has  the 
following objectives:
(1)  To ensure that all companies accessing the primary market are making complete 
disclosures about their company and their functioning.
(2)  Pricing  has  been  determined  through  the  book-building  process  (price-discovery 
mechanism by the markets).
(3)  Reservation of shares for bulk buyers like qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) is in 
terms of norms that are laid down by SEBI.
(4)  Issues are not bunched together and there is a gap between offerings being made by
companies.
(5) There is an adequate participation of retail or small buyers in the offering. 
(6) Interest of the small investor is completely protected in terms of allotment being 
made to them and in case of excess applied than that allotted then refunds by the 
company performed promptly within the prescribed time frame of SEBI.
An approval of an offering by SEBI should not be seen as a recommendation to subscribe 
but  merely  that  the  company  has  complied  with  all  the  stipulations  of  SEBI.  Any 
investment decision in a particular offering of an individual or an institution is purely 
their own wisdom.
Once  the  process  of  issuance  is  complete,  company  received  the  money,  refunds 
completed,  it  has  to  get  their  shares/bonds  listed  at  any  of  the  stock  exchanges 
which  will  allow  for  trading  or  sale  purchase  of  shares  of  the  company  at  the  stock 
exchanges.
This is known as secondary market operations where shares are traded i.e., bought and 
sold at prices decided by the sellers and buyers of shares of a particular company. The two 
most important stock exchanges of the country are the Bombay stock Exchange (BSE) and 
the National Stock Exchange (NSE).
Even though there is a larger trading at the NSE, BSE is said to be the nerve centre of 
the Indian capital market, one being the oldest and the later located in the financial capital 
of the country; As it is difficult to track down trading of all the listed companies, an index CAPITAL MARKET 199
is used to comment on the general-trading trend of a particular day. This index is known 
as SENSEX at BSE which is an index of trading of top thirty companies in terms of their 
volume of trade and their share prices.
Similarly, NIFTY is the index of the NSE which has fifty companies. There is also 
NIFTY JUNIOR which is next fifty companies in terms of volume of trade and those 
which have the potential to become a part of NIFTY in future.
Further  trading  at  the  stock  exchanges  have  been  made  simple  and  easy  with 
computerization and issuance of shares and their trading is performed in the electronic 
form (dematerializing which is conversion into electronic form of all physical shares). 
Even with the capital reforms, greater transparency in allotment of shares and also trading 
of shares, there is a great degree of ignorance about the capital market and thus a little 
participation of the public, confined to a select middle class, and finance is understood 
more as banking.
The preferred modes of investment continue to be the traditional areas of gold, land 
and bank deposits for the masses in India. It may still take some time for capital markets 
becoming alternates to the traditional forms of investment in India.
17.6 MARKET CAPITALIZATION AND WEALTH
Market capitalization is the number of shares of a company multiplied by their share price 
at the stock market. The same way, wealth is also the number of shares held by a person 
multiplied by the share prices at the stock market.
Recently, SEBI has introduced the concept of‘free-float market capitalization’ which 
is the number of shares of the company available for trading at the stock market. This 
excludes the shares of the promoters of a company.
Capital market in India is emerging and trading community investment and trading in 
the capital market is by less than 1 per cent of the population. However it still attracts a lot of 
media attention, making headlines with the movements at the stock markets. It may not be 
a concern for the common man. But still it allows government to gauge reactions to various 
policy announcements. Adverse movement at the stock market can also allow a government 
to take remedial measures.
When stock prices are going up it is seen as a good for an economy or BULLISH and 
when stock prices are going down, it is known as negative sentiments in the economy 
(BEARISH). Thus, the terms of BULLs and BEARS are used in the stock market. Some 
of  the  well-known  global  stock  markets  are  National  Association  of  Security  Dealers 
Automated Quotations (NASDAQ), Dow Jones (US) and Nikkei (Japan).
17.7 MUTUAL  FUNDS  AND  UNIT-LINKED  INSURANCE  PLANS 
(ULIPS)
Dealing in shares and their trading at the stock exchanges has risks of sharp volatility in 
prices of shares (also known as equity shares or scrips). Mutual funds allow for sharing of 
risk or minimizing the risk in terms of risk appetite.200 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Mutual fund operators are specialized institutions who pool money from the public and 
then invest in the stock markets based on the research, past trends, company performance, 
so as to maximize the value to investors. There are various options available to an investor 
of reinvestment of the profits earned or taking back the profits at the discretion of the 
investor.
It should, however, be clearly understood that mutual funds do not ‘eliminate’ risk but 
‘minimize’ the risk in terms of risk appetite. Mutual fund operators are in the public sector 
such as the Unit Trust of India and also in the private sector and foreign companies. It is 
gradually emerging in India with a large number of middle class preferring to invest in 
mutual funds in India.
Unit-Linked Insurance Plans (ULIPs)
In recent times, there has been an increased preference of mutual fund companies as well 
as insurance companies to combine the investments in stock markets with life insurance 
plans, known as ULIPs. This need has arisen as there is very low penetration of life 
insurance in India or lack of awareness of the need for such policies, compared to other 
countries.
The insurances ectortill rece ntly wasgover nment-controlled with theLICacti ng as thesole
ins titut ions forselling o flife  insurance prod ucts,tillre cently,bas ed  on therec ommendations 
madeby R.N.Ma lhotrac ommitt ee, ofopening  theinsuranc ese ctorto private players.    
Even  though insurance sector has been  opened for both private as well as foreign 
companies, the equity cap  for fore ign  equity is 26 per ce nt, i.e., foreig n p layer s ca n come
in solely as  a j oint venture w ith an Indian com pany. D espit e the  opening of the insurance 
sector,lifein su rance  penetra tion isfairly lowin India.            
         
Aspartofthe effortsofboth themutualfundsaswellastheinsurancecompaniesto expand 
                             
theirbase,ULIPwasseen asaway to attractalargernumberoftheuntapped vastpotentialofthe
                         
country.Thelogicfollowed by thepeopleforinsuranceproductswasthatthey should also give
                         
areasonableassured return besidesthelifecoverto them.
             
There is a fundamental flaw in the perception of not being able to understand that
                   
investments for life cover and investments in mutual funds are with different objectives. A
                     
life insurance cover cannot be seen as maximizing returns. It is a protection to the family 
                     
in case of untimely demise and for uncertainty of life. Protection has to come first before
                   
looking atmaximizing returns.
 
All insurance companies have such policies known as endowment policies, with fairly 
               
lowlevelsofpremium,buthaveno returns,except thelifecoverfortheamount insured.The
                             
otheraspectnotunderstood isthefactthat‘lowertheage,loweristhepremium;and higherthe
                             
age,higheristhepremium’forthesameamountofsumassured.Atyoung age,theendowment
                               
policieshavevery lowlevelsofpremium.
             
The insurance companies rather than educating the people of these fundamental issues
                   
choose the option of combining the returns with life covers resulting in higher premium
                 
and denying the benefits of maximizing returns or a decent sum assured as life insurance
                     
cover.CAPITAL MARKET 201
This has also led to regulatory conflicts as the insurance companies as pure insurance 
companies  are  controlled  by  the  insurance  regulatory  development  authority  (IRDA) 
while  mutual  funds  come  under  SEBI.  As  a  larger  number  of  insurance  companies 
while investing in mutual funds were outside the purview of SEBI and IRDA with only 
responsibility  of  insurance  business  had  no  role  in  their  investment  in  mutual  funds. 
While,  the  investment  by  the  insurance  companies  in  mutual  funds  had  no  regulators 
making it difficult for SEBI to protect the interests of the investors.
However, more than this conflict is to spread awareness amongst the people of setting 
aside some money for life cover and not as an investment but as a protection measure, 
merely as one saves for a rainy day without bothering for returns.
Depending  on  income  levels  and  family  requirements,  a  certain  portion  may  be 
invested with the sole objective of maximizing returns for the people. This would be a 
judicious  decision  achieving  both  the  objectives  rather  than  combining  the  two  as  an 
UL1P, as a better option.
     
                 
         
           
           
 
 
 
   
 
                   
                   
 
               
   
           
 
 
 
     
    CHAPTER18
PLANNING IN INDIA
GENESIS
Planning  in  post-independence  India  has  been  driven  by  the  five-year  plans  which 
is a horizon of five years with a mid-term review and then the next five-year plan. In 
exceptional years of wars and other such situations, India has also opted for annual plans. 
also known as ‘plan holiday’, a break from the five-year plans.
There was also a concept of rolling plan which also has a horizon of five years, bur 
allowing for corrections mid-term or even annually depending on the performance under 
various heads. However, primarily in India, it has been the five-year plans with each plar. 
having a mid-term review.
Planning in India is centralized, which provides a macro framework of developmental 
and investment needs, mobilization of resources to achieve desired levels of growth. The 
responsibility of planning in India vests with the Planning Commission which is not a 
statutory body, headed by a Deputy Chairman and the Prime Minister as the Chairman 
of Planning Commission. The plans are formulated by the Planning Commission and are 
approved by the National Development Council (NDC) with the Prime Minister as its 
Chairman.
The Government of India, in keeping with its reform agenda, constituted the NITI 
Aayog to replace the Planning Commission instituted in 1950. This was done in order to 
better serve the needs and aspirations of the people of India. An important evolutionary 
change from the past, NITI Aayog acts as the quintessential platform of the Government 
of India to bring States to act together in national interest, and thereby fosters Cooperative 
Federalism.
The National Institution for Transforming India, also called NITI Aayog, was formed 
via a resolution of the Union Cabinet on January 1, 2015. NITI Aayog is the premier 
policy ‘Think Tank’o fth e G overnmentof Ind ia,prov iding both directionaland p olicy inputs
.
PLANNING AND MARKET ECONOMY
It is widely believed that planning is relevant for developing economies and absence of a 
market mechanism results in most economic decisions being taken by the government.PLANNING IN INDIA 203
As economies get market-oriented, the role of planning gets diluted as decisions get taken 
efficiently by the markets. This is actually an incorrect way of looking at planning and 
market economy as substitutes. Both have different set of objectives. Planning gives a 
direction  to the economy  and market  economy  gives  efficiency  in use  of resources , 
investments and production in an economy.
Planning  is  much  broader  and  it  offers  a  macro perspective, vision of the  country 
into the future, chart out a growth path, required levels of savings and investments to 
achieve desired levels of growth. It also provides how to allocate precious scarce resources 
to competing end uses. It ensures complementarity of investments and a more balanced, 
equitable development and distribution in an economy.
More  fundamentally,  it  also  seeks  to  balance  demand  on  public  resources  leaving 
sufficient for future generations to come and at the same time the present requirements are 
also met. Market economy does not allow for these, as a market economy is restricted to 
decisions taken by the market for efficiency in production activities and does not allow focus 
on national priorities and needs. As a market economy, there is still a need for direction 
which is what planning is able to provide.
INDIA AND FIVE-YEAR PLANS
Directed Planning (PI—P6)
India’s  five-year  plans  commenced  with  the  first-five  year  plan  spanning  1951-1952 
to 1955—1956, with a modest overall growth target of 2.1 per cent. With just having 
becoming an independent country, objective was on increasing agricultural sector growth 
and balance development while keeping inflation under check. Being the first plan, targets 
were fairly modest and emphasis was on consolidation.
It was fromt hese cond five-yearpl an (1956-1957 to 1960-1961)tha tpla nning in thetrue 
form acqu ired shapeofvisi on  ofIndia,n eed for an indust rialbaseand t heres ultantini tiation of 
industrializa tion.Thiswasalso  know  n a stheMahalanob ism odel,used in  theseco nd five-year 
plan,which wasc reatin g significan tcapacitiesin both c apitalasw ellascoreindus trie sby  the 
gove rnment.    
The emphasis of this model was on achieving self-reliance and also the ability to meet 
the needs of the domestic economy. This plan is known for a top-down industrialization 
of the big industries creating a base for the growth of medium and small-scale industries 
and going down to village and cottage industries. It also gave birth to the concept of public 
sector  of  state  run  enterprises  based  on  the  Russian  model  of  industrialization.  Public 
sector was also envisioned as to meet broad socio-welfare objectives in the economy.
Most of the public sector in India was set up during this plan period and also known 
as the industrialization or the public sector plan. With the first plan target for overall 
growth surpassed the second plan which had set out an ambitious target of 4.5 per cent 
for the five-year period, but managed only an average growth of 3.9 per cent during the 
plan period.
The third five-year plan (1961-1962 to 1965-1966) had proposed a larger thrust on 
industrialization but the war with China and subsequently Pakistan, quite destabilized204 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
the third plan because of the changing priorities of the war, and resulted in a plan holiday 
from 1966-1967 to 1968-1969. Towards the end of the third plan, the plan holiday had 
a great contribution in ushering in the green revolution which increased the productivity 
of crops like wheat by using high-yielding varieties of seeds.
The  fourth  plan  (1969-1970  to  1973-1974)  was  rebuilding  the  economy  with  the 
scarce resources that had got diverted towards war and aimed at growth with stability, 
greater self-reliance especially in defence, as a fall out of the war and increased vulnerability 
of more such wars in the future.
The fifth plan (1974-1975 to 1978-1979) for the first time actually addressed the issue 
of removal of poverty as a prime objective.
However, it was sixth plan (1980—1981 to 1984-1985), it was realized that the growth 
by itself was not sufficient, for one, they were not sufficiently high enough to address 
the larger issues of poverty in the country and the other being that there were structural 
rigidities. This plan made a frontal attack on poverty; when the then Prime Minister, late 
Smt. Indira Gandhi gave the slogan of 'Garibi Hatao.
It marks the transformation from allocating scarce resources in the economy, to welfare 
orientation with focus on specific programs for poverty alleviation. These were not new 
schemes, however, all different schemes were combined as one scheme and known as the 
Integrated rural development programme (IRDP). It was the first plan to focus on gender 
issues, women empowerment and the growing inequalities amongst the states and also 
intra-regional imbalances.
From Pl to P6 five-year plan, they were directed plans as there was a large role of 
public sector and substantially larger investment by the government or the government 
could ensure investment in specific areas as it was the major investor. The general overtone 
in these five-year plans was towards industrialization, setting up of the public sector, self- 
reliance  and  establishing  India  as  a  self-generating  economy,  to  provide  employment 
and meeting the needs of the economy, rather than they being provided directly by the 
government. Towards P5 and more in P6, poverty' and welfare orientation of the plans 
became visible.
Indicative Planning (P7 onwards)
The  seventh  plan  (1985—1986  to  1989-1990)  had  two important  aspects, one that of, 
larger  agricultural  sector  orientation  of  increasing  production  and  productivity  and  the 
second that of, a steady decline in the public sector investment falling to below 50 per cent 
of the total outlay, implying a larger contribution from private sector in the total outlay 
of the plan.
It was the plan which recorded the highest ever agricultural and overall growth of 10.4 
per cent in 1988-1989; however, this was largely due  to the  lower  base  of  the  previous 
year with ag rowth ofo nly 3.8 percen t.Ith as expe rienced forthe fi rstt ime,a probl em  ofimpo rts 
outstripp ing theexportsr esulting  in abalanceof payment cris isin thec ountry  requir ing India
to seek loan fro mtheInternationalM  one tary Fund (IM F).Thisisfurtherdiscus sed in  de tailin a 
separatesection on  the samesub ject.    PLANNING IN INDIA 205
These adverse developments again forced the government to opt for a plan holiday from 
1990 to 1992. As in the previous plan period, even this resulted in the launch of economic 
reforms also known as the New Economic Policy 1991, which has been discussed earlier 
in the section on public sector. Each successive plan after P7 has seen a phased reduction 
in public sector outlay and larger levels of private sector, changing planning from ‘directed 
to indicative’, which is, indicating which sectors require investment in terms of priorities 
and private sector expected to make that investment.
The  eighth  plan  (1992-1993  to  1996-1997),  besides  the  objectives  of  increasing 
growth, agricultural production mentioned the need for attaining self-sufficiency* in food 
grains. It, for the first time, brought the need for strengthening infrastructure especially in 
the areas of energy, transport, communications and energy.
It wasth e fir stplan  to haveuniver salelement ary education and eradication ofilliteracy in  
theagegroup o f15- 35 years asamajorob jec tiv e.Thi splan was also  thefirstto  havepe ople 
initiative  and p articipatio n  in education ,literacy ,family   plannin g ,land developm ent ,
irrigation,etc. ,also then eed to  rap volu ntary agenciesformeeting then eeds ofthesocial sector. 
Th epr ivate s ector in vestm  ent wa sincre ased to 55  perc ent,playing alarger rolei n mining, 
comm unica tion,electric ity and gas.Ther oleofpublicsectorw assee n no wa sselecti ve.    
   
The ninth plan (1997-1998 to 2001-2002), was only a further extension of the earlier
plan, b ut besides the focus on growth also to  prov ide for social j ustice and eq uity  in the 
econo my.                 
The tenth  plan  (2002-2003  to  2006-2007) became more ambitious in  terms of
wide-ra nging objectives addressing each and ev ery aspec t of th e economy  but for  one 
difference it gave a tim e frame for poverty reduction, elem en tary  education, lite racy  and  
other such  is sues. It is in  this p lan  that the Fiscal Resp onsibility Budget Man agement Act
was e nacted which  s et out tim e frame f or r eductio n in fiscal and revenue  deficit as pa rt of 
fisca lconsolidation.                      
 
The eleventh  plan  (2007-2008  to  2011-2012) has coined  the concept of Inclusive
growth  which means the benefits of growth shou ld be  benefiting  the mass es. It has set 
out monitorable and  quan tifiable t arg ets both for the ce ntre as well as the stat es and  has 
gro uped theprio rity areasto bead dressed  by thego vern ment.              
       
It was concerned with the growing divide across the economy and a specific mention of
draw ing t he NE states into  mainstream dev elopme nt o f the economy.  The ele venth plan 
                         
sawthelowesteverpublicsectoroutlayof25percentwithaprivatesectoroutlayof75percent
asag ain stthepr eviou spolic ieshav ingo ver6 0 perce ntou tla yfro mthep ublics ecto r.     
                            
It has also brought out the need for neo-liberal policies given the changing global
dynam  ics and a change d fa ce o f the econ omy. It gav e thrust to the  pub lic-private  sector 
partnershi p mo d el for inf rastru ctu ral d evelopmen t  in the econo my . Th e mid-term ap praisal 
has, howev er, sca led the original-tar geted rate of  gr owt h because of t he global recession 
duri ng 2008-2 009. It has also mentioned t hat m os t sectors  were on  tra ck as visu alized and 
by the end of the pla n th ere s hould be p erfor manc e of an increa sed  all r oun d performa nce 
inc ludi ngth ef arm secto r.                    
     206 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
INCLUSIVE GROWTH : THEME OF 12  PLAN
th
Twelfth plan which covers years 2012 to 2017 focuses on instilling “inclusive growth' . 
The plan is expected to be one that encourages the development of India’s agriculture, 
education, health and social welfare through government spending. It is also expected to 
create employment through developing India’s manufacturing sector and move the nation 
higher up the value chain.
The planning commission will strive to enact policies that will achieve somewhere 
around a 10% growth rate in factories and a 4% growth rate in farm produce, though Prime 
Minister has asked to set the nations growth rate firmly at 9 per cent to 9.5%.
An important aspect of generating “inclusive growth” is shifting target of government aid 
to rural areas. Typically, large projects such as power generation, roads whereby freight can 
travel, and airports receive the lion’s share of government subsidies, while rural infrastructure 
receives comparatively little.
Rural infrastructure, which serves 70 per cent of the population, doesn’t get the attention 
it deserves. As the Planning Commission sets out to draft the country’s planned investments 
for the next five years, it is important to take note of this gap, and the innovative solutions 
needed to fill it.
Twenty five core monitorable targets of twelth five year plan focusing on objective of 
inclusive growth are as follows:
Economic Growth
•  Real GDP growth rate of 8.2 per cent.
•  Agriculture growth rate of 4.0 per cent.
•  Manufacturing growth rate of 10.0 per cent.
•  Every State must have a higher average growth rate in the Twelfth Plan than that 
achieved in the Eleventh Plan.
Poverty and Employment
•  Head-count ratio of consumption poverty to be reduced by 10 percentage points over 
the preceding estimates by the end of Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Generate 50 million new work opportunities in the non-farm sector and provide skill 
certification to equivalent numbers during the Twelfth Five Year Plan.
Education
•  Mean years of schooling to increase to seven years by the end of Twelfth Five Year 
Plan.
•  Enhance access to higher education by creating two million additional seats for each 
age cohort aligned to the skill needs of the economy.
• Eliminate ge nder an d social ga p in school enr ollment(th atis, betw  een girlsand  boys,and  
between.SCs ,STs, Musl imsand th erestof thep op ulati on)by theen d ofTw elfth F iveYear
Plan.   PLANNING IN INDIA 207
Health
•  Reduce IMR to 25 and MMR to 1 per 1000 live births, and improve Child Sex Ratio 
(0-6 years) to 950 by the end of the Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Reduce Total Fertility Rate to 2.1 by the end of Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Reduce under-nutrition among children aged 0-3 years to half of the NFHS-3 levels by 
die end of Tw elfth Five Year Plan.
Infrastructure, Including Rural Infrastructure
•  Increase investment in infrastructure as a percentage of GDP to 9 per cent by the end 
of Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Increase the Gross Irrigated Area from 90 million hectare to 103 million hectare by the 
end of Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Provide electricity to all villages and reduce AT&C losses to 20 per cent by the end of 
Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Connect all villages with all-weather roads by the end of Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Upgrade national and state highways to the minimum two-lane standard by the end 
of Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Complete Eastern and Western Dedicated Freight Corridors by the end of Twelfth 
Five Year Plan.
•  Increase rural tele-density to 70 per cent by the end of Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Ensure 50 per cent of rural population has access to 55 LPCD piped drinking water 
supply and 50 per cent of gram panchayats achieve the Nirmal Gram Status by the end 
of Twelfth Five Year Plan.
Environment and Sustainability
•  Increase green cover (as measured by satellite imagery) by 1 million hectare every year 
during the Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Add 30,000 MW of renewable energy capacity in the Twelfth Plan.
•  Reduce emission intensity of GDP in line with the target of 20 per cent to 25 per cent 
reduction by 2020 over 2005 levels.
Service Delivery
•  Provide access to banking services to 90 per cent Indian households by the end of 
Twelfth Five Year Plan.
•  Major subsidies and welfare related beneficiary ments to be shifted to a direct cash 
transfer by the end of the Twelfth Plan, using the Aadhar platform linked with bank 
accounts.
CHALLENGES BEFORE TWELFTH PLAN 
(2012-2013 TO 2016-2017)
The twelfth plan would have the following challenges:208 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(1)  A  bigger  challenge than  Pll of providing for inclusive growth or the ability to 
provide broad-based benefits to the masses.
(2)  Planning would increasingly become indicative with larger role of private sector in 
the total outlay.
(3)  The challenge will be on improving agricultural production and productivity given 
the  near  stagnation  levels.  Their  commercialization,  adoption  of  biotechnology, 
access to finance, land reforms, etc., have all remained a challenge in the previous 
plans, but a larger challenge before twelfth plan, especially as it falls within the 
domains of the state government with limited central government interventions.
(4)  Infrastructure investment and the requirement of long-term resources are the more 
important needs for coordinated and an effective infrastructure.
(5)  Poverty continues to be the major issue and also a major limitation of not having the 
actual number especially in recent times. This does not allow an understanding of the 
impact  of  schemes  like  Mahatma  Gandhi  National  Rural  Employment  Guarantee 
Scheme (MGNREGS) and other social sector programmes of recent times. There 
is also a need to leverage technology in this area, for appropriate corrections in 
policies.
(6)  The need for labour sector reforms cannot be more than the present because of their 
links with creating employment opportunities with increased growth in future.
(7)  Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) would be acting as an important role not only 
for decentralized planning but also in implementation of various programmes. The 
challenge will be in evolving them as ‘effective’ institutions for better delivery in the 
economy.
(8)  The  eleventh  plan  had  mentioned  about  the  growing  ‘divide’  across  regions  of 
increased inter- and intra-regional divides and also exclusivity of the NE states in 
overall  development  process.  Strategies for bridging  this  divide would  also be a 
challenge.
(9)  Skill  formation  has  engaged  the  attention  of  the  central  government  but  would 
require greater thrust as actionable targets and sensitizing the state governments of 
their larger role in skill formation.
(10)  All the plans since eighth plan can be seen as more or less as a five-year ‘ritual’ unlike 
the earlier plans which were intellectually stimulating.
Hope the twelfth plan will be path-breaking, different from the earlier plans, forcing the 
government and the others to think and provide a greater credibility and respect to the five 
year plans and also Planning Commission.
NITI AAYOG: THE PREMIER POLICY THINK TANK
The National Institution for Transforming  India, also called NITIA  ayog,w  asf ormed viaa 
re solution ofth eUn ion Cabineton  January 1,2015 .NITI Aayo g isthepr emie rpolicy ,‘Think  
Tank’ofthe G  ov ernm  ent ofIndia ,p rovidin g  both directional and po licy inputs.While 
design ing strategicand lon g termpolicie sand pro grammesfortheG  ov ern mentof  PLANNING IN INDIA 209
India, NITI Aayog also provides relevant technical advice to the Centre and States.
The  Government  of  India,  in  keeping  with  its  reform  agenda,  constituted  the  NITI 
Aayog to replace the Planning Commission instituted in 1950. This was done in order to 
better serve the needs and aspirations of the people of India. An important evolutionary 
change from the past, NITI Aayog acts as the quintessential platform of the Government 
of India to bring States to act together in national interest, and thereby fosters Cooperative 
Federalism.
At  the  core  of  NITI  Aayog  s  creation  are  two  hubs  —  Team  India  Hub  and  the 
Knowledge and Innovation  Hub. The Team India Hub leads the engagement of states 
with  the  Central  government, while  the Knowledge  and  Innovation Hub  builds NITI’s 
think-tank capabilities. These hubs reflect the two key tasks of the Aayog.
Niti Aayog's Functions
The main functions of Niti Aayog are enlisted below:
•  To evolve a shared vision of national development priorities sectors and strategies with 
the active involvement of States in the light of national objectives.
•  To foster cooperative federalism through structured support initiatives and mechanisms 
with the States on a continuous basis, recognizing that strong States make a strong 
nation.
•  To develop mechanisms to formulate credible plans at the village level and aggregate 
these progressively at higher levels of government.
•  To ensure, on areas that are specifically referred to it, that the interests of national 
security are incorporated in economic strategy and policy.
•  To pay special attention to the sections of our society that may be at risk of not 
benefiting adequately from economic progress.
•  To design strategic and long term policy and programme frameworks and initiatives, 
and monitor their progress and their efficacy. The lessons learnt through monitoring 
and feedback will be used for making innovative improvements, including necessary 
mid-course corrections.
•  To provide advice and encourage partnerships between key stakeholders and national 
and international like-minded Think tanks, as well as educational and policy research 
institutions.
•  To  create  a  knowledge,  innovation  and  entrepreneurial  support  system  through  a 
collaborative community of national and international experts, practitioners and other 
partners.
•  To offer a platform for resolution of inter-sectoral and inter departmental issues in 
order to accelerate the implementation of the development agenda.
•  To maintain a state-of-the-art Resource Centre, be a repository of research on good 
governance and best practices in sustainable and equitable development as well as help 
their dissemination to stake-holders.210 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
•  To actively monitor and evaluate the implementation of programmes and initiatives, 
including the identification of the needed resources so as to strengthen the probability 
of success and scope of delivery.
•  To  focus  on  technology  upgradation  and  capacity  building  for  implementation  of 
programmes and initiatives.
•  To undertake other activities as may be necessary in order to further the execution of 
the national development agenda, and the objectives mentioned above.
NITI Aayog's Role
NITI Aayog has been entrusted with the role to co-ordinate ‘Transforming our world: 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development’ (called as SDGs). Moving ahead from 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), SDGs have been evolved through a long 
inclusive process for achievement during 2016-2030.
The SDGs cover 17 goals and 169 related targets resolved in the UN Summit meet 
25-27 September 2015, in which India was represented at the level of Hon’blc Prime 
Minister. These SDGs will stimulate, align and accomplish action over the 15-year period 
in areas of critical importance for the humanity and the planet.
The task at hand for NITI Aayog is not merely to periodically collect data on SDGs but 
to act proactively fructify the goals and targets not only quantitatively but also maintaining 
high standards of quality.
Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI) has already undertaken 
a parallel exercise of interaction with the ministries to evolve indicators reflecting the SDG 
goals and targets.
To achieve these tasks, the draft mapping of the goals and targets as an initial step on 
proposed Nodal and other Ministries has been carried out in consultation with MoSPI.
Further, as an illustration, the Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSSs),including the core 
of the core’, ‘core’ and optional’ Schemes being implemented by the States have been 
mapped along with some of the recent initiatives undertaken by the Central Government.
In addition, Ministries are implementing Central Sector Schemes and States are also 
implementing various State Schemes aligned with one or more SDGs.
Vision, Strategy and Action
The 15-year vision document has a seven-year strategy document for 2017-24 as the 
‘National Development Agenda.’ Separately, a three-year Action Agenda from 2017-18 
to 2019-20 is also under works to assess funding requirements. The three-year agenda is 
further divided into seven parts,w ith anu mberof spe cificact ion pointsfor each  partto bo ost
econo micgrowt h.
The 12rh five years plan has came to an end on March 31, 2017. The three-year action 
plan came into force from April 1, which will also end the prevailing system of the centre 
patiently waiting (for) the state governments to implement the schemes.
Niti Aayog has also been entrusted the work on the 15-year Vision Document and a 
seven year strategy, which would guide the government’s development work till 2030.PLANNING IN INDIA 211
RECENT INITIATIVES OF NITI AAYOG.
NITI Aayog has taken slew of measures and initiatives towards building an inclusive and 
sustainable India. The major recent initiatives undertook by Niti Aayog can be seen under 
the following ways.
Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat
The Initiative of Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat aims to make India united, strong and promote 
excellence in all  walks of life by means of long-term inter-state engagements through 
cultural exchanges and education.
Sustainable Action for Transforming Human Capital (SATH)
As  part  of initiating  transformation  in sectors of education and health, it has initiated 
SATH. Under SATH, Niti Aayog aims to bring transformative change by hand-holding 
States towards improving their social sector indicators and providing technical support.
Development Support Services to States (DSSS) for Development of 
Infrastructure
It has launched DSSS to address key structural issues in project development and build 
institutional  and  organizational  capacities.  The  initiative  aims  at  establishing  a  Centre- 
State  partnership  model  and  reignite  and  establish  Private  Public  Partnership  across 
infrastructure sectors.
Public-Private Partnership in Health
To aid States in achieving the health goals in the area of prevention, diagnosis and treatment 
of select Non- Communicable processes, Niti Aayog has developed a guiding framework 
tor States, for implementation at the district hospital level.
Cooperative Federalism
As part of resolving pending issues with the Central Ministries from all States and UTs. Niti 
Aayog is providing a platform to share best practices among states and for collaboration 
to achieve common good.
State Human Development Report
Niti Aayog assisted states in the preparation of State Human Development Reports.
Transforming of 115 Identified Aspirational Districts.
Niti Aayog is the prime force behind the Aspirational District Programme. This Programme 
aims at rapidly transforming 115 identified districts that have shown lesser progress in key 
social areas and remind as pockets of under-development.212 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Competitive federalism
To ensure a healthy competitive federalism it has taken following steps.
•  Finalized indices to measure incremental annual outcomes in critical social sectors like 
health, education, water and Sustainable Development Goals (SDg).
•  Developed the District Hospital Index to measure and monitor the performance of 
hospitals with a focus on outputs and outcomes.
•  Developed the ‘Healthy States, Progressive India Report also known as the ‘Health 
Index.
•  Announced the Composite Water Management Index to assess and improve the 
performance of States/ Union Territories in efficient management of water resources.
•  It is in the process of formulating ‘School Education Quality Index (SEQI)’, ‘SDG 
India Index’ and the ‘Digital Transformation Index’ (DTI) to measure states’ progress 
in respective sectors.
     
       
     
     
 
 
 
     
       
                   
 
 
 
      
PART
B
 
EXTERNAL SECTOR­
 
LOOKING OUTWARDS
   
Towards Globalization and Beyond

CHAPTER19
LOOKING OUTWARD—
TOWARDS GLOBALIZATION
So  far,  we  have  discussed  about  the  domestic  economy.  What  does  it  mean  to  look 
outward? Looking outward is to look at the Rest of World.
19.1 NEED TO LOOK OUTWARD
The need to look outward brings us to the importance of trade and various currencies. 
Any trade with other countries would involve receipts and payment in currencies other 
than home currency. As an inward looking economy focused on domestic sector, the home 
currency was important. Trade will involve imports (goods coming into the country) and 
exports (goods going outside the country). All payment for imports has to be in foreign 
currency and all receipts in foreign currency.
The need to look outwards thus is to look for newer markets and at the same time 
allowing foreign currency to come to pay for imports, required for developmental needs 
domestically.
19.2 NEED FOR IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
It is well-known that there are different countries in the world with different resource 
endowments, levels of development, income levels, diverse languages and cultures. No one 
country can be said to have the best of everything in the world i.c., there is a 'relative deficit' 
in each country which could either be resources, or people, or knowledge or technology 
or markets or even goodsa nd servicesd iffering in termso fth eirra ngean d superiority.
T he needs of ac ountry keep on changing continuously .It also undergoes  a change with 
increasing population pressure  and increased income  levels ,requiring optimal  and efficient 
allocation and utilization  o fscarce  resources depending  on the resource endowments of 
different countries.
Basically, there are two different kinds of resource endowments in an economy—labour 
and capital, This is 'relative resource endowment' i.e., though every country will have both 
but relatively one would be more than the other across countries. India, for example, has 
relatively large and abundant pool of labour than capital. Similarly Germany has relatively 
more capital than labour. Thus, labour would be cheap in India, whereas capital would be 
cheap in Germany.
Thus, production process in India would be labour-intensive and such goods would 
be cheaper in India. What about labour-intensive goods in Germany? They will be more 
expensive given their relative scarcity and higher cost of labour in comparison with India.216 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
What abo ut cap ital-intensive goo ds? The  sam e, it w  il l be che aper to  produce cap ital-  
intensive goo ds in  Germany given their rela tive abu ndance of  cap ital tha n India whe re  
capitalissc ar ce.
Thus, Ind ia pro ducing capital-intensive goo ds and  Germany producing labour-intensive  
goods is n ot effi cient util ization of reso urces, sub -optimal and  resulting in higher cos t in  
both economies.Thu s,then eed  arisesfort rad eand  to look outwardsfora n e conomy.
A bett er solu tion for both  the cou ntries, Ind ia as  wel l as  Ger many would be that : le:   
India pro duce labo ur-intensive goo ds (as it i s r ela tively cheaper in  India) and  export to  
Germany while imp ort cap ital-intensive goo ds from  Ger many (as it i s r ela tively cheaper  
in Germany).
This is w ha t is k no wn as The ory of C om parative Adv antage, whi ch states that a la bour-  
intensivecoun trywill expo rtgoo dsover whic h ithas a co mparativeadva ntage(lab our-intensive  
goods by  Ind ia) and  import goo ds ove r whi ch it has a c omparative disa dvantage (cap ital-  
intensivegoo dsfrom  Ger many).
The rela tive diff erences in  resource end owments the n become the bas is of  trad e for   
efficient allo cation and  utilization  of reso urces resu lting  in  economic gai ns for trad ing 
countries. Thu s, no  trading will onl y lead to growing inefficiencies, hig h costs, bur den 
of infl ation besides lop- sided development. Tra ding solely will allo w for bett er add ressing 
the nee ds of dev elopment, thr ough  efficient allo cation  of res ources, red ucing  costs,  
increasing  income of eco nomies wh ich  is also   known  as we lfare gai ns’ for  bot h  the  
countries.
As lon g as, an  economy is loo king at qua ntities of  wha t is b ein g produced, foc used 
on creating capacities, me eting the bas ic nee ds of  its pop ulation and the eco nomy and 
issues suc h as effi ciency, qua lity not  on  priority a cou ntry can afford to ignore trad e.  
However, not  ind efinitely, as cos ts wo uld  gradually  build-up, ma king  economies hig h 
cost, unc ompetitive give n the high  levels of i nef ficiency and chinks in t he eco nomy would 
start to a ppear of a  h igh -cost, cau ght in a  low -growth cycle, eco nomy unable to m  eet the   
demandsofg row  ing population and theneed sofh igh ergrow  th.
FLIPSID ETO TR ADE
Yes! ther e can  be a fe w perc eived fall outs  of t rad e. Firs t, it co u ld come in th e way  to build 
a self -reliant eco nomy bring back dependence, on  economies mem  ories of t he exp loitative  
colonialand  imperialrule .
Secondly, trad e stri ctly based on comparative adv antage ma y not hap pen with each 
country  having  own  national pri orities and   in  conflict wit h  trade bas ed  on  resource  
endowments.
Thirdly, ther e cou ld be rest rictions to  trade dist orting comparative adv antage. Sim ilar  
to levy of imp ort duti es, also  known as tarif f and  non-tariff barr iers to t rade in t he form  of    
quotas, disc rimination and other pro tectionist mea sures. The se asp ects wil l be exa mined 
in detailwhi ledisc ussing WTO.
The flip  sides can  be reso lved only through greater ope nness, firm  dete rmination and 
resolve of e co nomies and  breaking the beli ef that trad e is d etr imental and  on the con trary,  
they will pro vide for wel fare gain s. Tra de is i nev itable for eco nomies wan ting to chalk 
out new  gro wth paths and  reflects a w in -win situation for all the trad ing partners, bett er  
allocation of scar ce reso urces, ope ning newer mar kets and  resulting in long-term gain s for   
economies.LOOKING OUTWARD—TOWARDS GLOBALIZATION 217
19.4 NEW GLOBALIZATION REPORT: THREE MEGA-TRENDS.
Globalization has impacted people and communities across the globe and has significantly 
influenced global developmental efforts. It has helped the world to be more interconnected 
than ever before.
Three mega-trends related tog lobalization h aveb eene merged re cently,na mely,Sh iftsin 
pro ductionand labo rmark ets,Rapid advanc esintechn olog yandClima tech ange.The setrends 
areexp ected tosh apeandi nfl uence ourf uture.    
•  The first mega-trend refers to the impact of production changes on the labour markets. 
These trends in labour markets are associated with higher rates of income inequality, 
which has increased in a majority of countries across the globe.
•  The second mega-trend is related to the fast-moving development and advancement 
of new technologies. The countries that do not have access to these facilities are at risk 
of being left behind.
•  The third mega trend is related to climate change. Many trends closely linked to 
globalization,  including  economic  activity,  lifestyle  changes  and  urbanization,  are 
having an impact on our environment and may contribute to climate change.

CHAPTER20
INWARD AND OUTWARD­
LOOKING ECONOMIES’ 
GLOBALIZATION
CLOSED ECONOMIES
In the initial years of development, most economies are inward-looking (closed) economies 
with a strong focus on domestic demand, domestic population, domestic resources and 
fulfilling the basic needs in an economy. These economies are characterized by high-levels 
of insulation from the rest of the world virtually and complete cut-off from trade with 
imports  restricted  to  essentials  not  possible  to  produce  in  the  domestic  economy  and 
exports are permitted only of surplus over-domestic demand.
Such  economies  have  a  large  role  in  the  government  as  a  direct  producer  of 
goods and servicesin  theeco nomy,high ly regulated (rememberIndia before 1991 ref orms),
focused o n self-relianceand imports ubstitution.Ho wever,asecon omies      
move  up  the  development  ladder,  inflexibility,  high  levels  of  controls,  relative 
inefficiencies and high-wage cost starts building up of a high-cost economy stifling the 
economy.
This gets compounded by their relative inability to increase growth rates and income 
because  of  the  inadequacy  and  misallocation  of  resources,  technology  and  knowledge. 
Further, import of goods increases to meet domestic requirements. The inward character 
of such economies become liability and forces them or pushes them to look outwards not 
as a matter of choice but as a compulsion, which is looking ‘outwards’ to meet ‘inward’ or 
domestic requirements of an economy.
Fast-paced  global  developments  over  the  last  two decades have played the  role  of 
facilitators  to  the  changed  outlook,  making  this  transformation  seamless  and  a  natural 
outcome.
WHAT ARE THESE FACILITATORS?
(1)  Global Accessibility: The global economy has virtually shrunk with multi-modal fast 
global accessibility in terms of speed and time taken to travel. Air travel previous?, 
meant for ‘elite’ has been brought closer to the ‘common man by making it affordable 
Travel  today  is faster, lesser time-consuming,  comfortable and also  affordable  for 
the  people.  This  has  given  boost  to  tourism  and  more  importantly  increased  the 
‘awareness’ of different economies.INWARD AND OUTWARD-LOOKING ECONOMIES’ GLOBALIZATION 219
(2)  Telecommunication  Revolution:  Telecommunication  has  undergone  a  complete 
revolution in the last two decades, both in terms of global teledensity as well as 
reach. Technology-intensive telephony is cost-effective and provides cheaper mode 
of  telecommunication.  Audio  telecommunication  is  now  giving  way  to  visual 
telecommunication allowing one to view and talk at the same time. Multi-location 
video conferencing is gaining popularity as it saves time of travel besides providing 
an  alternate  way  of  telecommunication  simultaneously  across  multiple  locations. 
However, the  real revolution  is  mobile telephony which has completely redefined 
telecommunications globally.
(3)  Information Metamorphosis: It is a metamorphosis of the form of information from 
physical  gathering,  books,  literature,  magazines,  previously  known  as  ‘information 
asymmetrical’ (less information) to that of now symmetrical information (complete 
information) through the internet powered by the ‘search engines' (google, yahoo, 
etc.).  What  this  has  done  is  global  information’  right  on  your  computer  cutting 
across  countries,  products,  services  and  knowledge.  This  has  not  only  increased 
awareness,  speed  of  information  gathering  but  also  the  knowledge  base  of 
people.
(4)  Media  Transformation:  The  media  transformation  has  been  a  gradual  shift  away 
from  the  print  media  to  electronic  media  with the  advent  of  televisions. Satellite 
connectivity  today  allows  one  to  watch  global  developments  right  in  ones  own 
drawing room.
(5)  Redefined Living Standards: The living standards of people have also undergone 
a change from ‘hard living’ to ‘soft living’ facilitated by the availability, enlarged 
choice set with greater stress on convenience and comfort. Increased demands for 
televisions, refrigerators, washing machines, air conditioners, etc., is not only because 
of increased income levels but also because of their continuous falling prices making 
them affordable.
(6)  The easy paced lifestyle has paved way to fast-paced lifestyle such as fast foods, 
convenient goods, etc.
(7)  Cultural Exchanges: Globalization has facilitated and still facilitating socio-cultural 
exchanges across the countries and communities. These exchanges of ideas have cross 
border influence now, than ever before.
All the above factors have led td integration of the world economy from an economic 
perspective to what is known as a ‘global village’. Goods and services today are not 
confined to geographies but are available across the countries. Countries of origin have 
lost relevance with emergence of global brands and global players.
It is difficult to ascertain today that a good being purchased is of which country. For 
example, Sony, a Japanese company could be selling televisions in India which may have 
been manufactured in Korea or Taiwan. Today goods and services, and their availability 
not identifiable by geographical boundaries but are driven by markets.
The above facilitators have served as an accelerator to the transformation of an inward- 
looking (closed) economy to an outward-looking (open) economy which is known as220 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
the  process  of  globalization.  The  first  thing  to  understand  is  that  globalization  is  not 
an objective but a process or a journey towards opening up of an economy by looking 
towards the rest of the world and to achieve integration in a rapidly transforming global 
village.
20.3 GLOBALIZATION INDICATORS
The  degree  of  openness  and  thus  globalization  though  generic  in  nature,  differs  from 
country to country in the process followed, but has a few common characteristic^ such as:
(1)  Lowering the levels of insulation from the rest of the World.
(2)  Easing of restriction on cross borders inflow of goods, services, resources and investment.
(3)  Increasing share of exports and imports to GDP of economies.
(4)  Greater thrust on exports.
(5)  Increasing share of exports of goods and services in GDP.
(6)  Increase in foreign currency transactions in relation to the total output.
(7)  Focus on  competitive forces,  greater efficiency levels aiming at achieving global 
competitiveness.
(8)  Globalization is also a reflection of the changed ideology and mind set of the government. 
Inward-looking  economies  like  erstwhile  USSR  or  the  Soviet  Union.  China  initiated 
their transformation in the seventies and India still later in the nineties. It can be said 
that curtains have fallen on the era of closed economies with the largest inward-looking 
economies which comprises of the erstwhile USSR, China and more recently India having 
adopted open policies through reforms in the domestic sector.
India’s efforts at globalization, as mentioned previously in the nineties, was a part of 
Economic Reforms of 1991 centred around the three pillars of liberalization, privatization 
and globalization also known as the L,P,G of economic reforms. Liberalization and pri­
vatization are to achieve domestic competitiveness while globalization is to achieve global 
competitiveness. Their roles are complimentary reinforcing each other. It is not possible 
to achieve the global competitiveness unless domestic sector is competitive and efficient.
All of them are processes rather than objectives to achieve better qualitative growth and 
widespread economic betterment, besides meeting ever expanding domestic requirements 
of the economy but with the active government interventions. India’s efforts at globalization 
had two significant aspects—one was the trade-related globalization which was relatively 
slow, compared to the other aspect of financial integration, with the capital inflows on 
the  current  and  capital  account  sharply  increasing  and  exceeding  100  per  cent  of  the 
GDP Globalization is a relatively new concept, dynamic, continuously evolving, requiring 
redefinition in terms of need and the most important aspect is, it is driven naturally across 
economies and could be said to have crossed the stage of ‘as a matter of choice’, but a 
matter of‘compulsion’ or being driven naturally with the tide.INWARD AND OUTWARD-LOOKING ECONOMIES' GLOBALIZATION 221
20.4 WHILE BEING DRIVEN INTO THE GLOBAL VILLAGE, CAN 
HAVE ITS OWN FALLOUT TOO
While it is a fact that globalization has been a natural process driven out of need it could 
also have its own set of fall outs as under:
(1)  Coupling of Economies: The relative coupling of economies in a global perspective 
would not allow decoupling of economies from adverse global fallouts.
(2)  The ability of economies to insulate themselves from crisis of one country adversely 
impacting their economies was possible rill the nineties.
(3)  Like the earlier crises of Mexico, Chile, South-east Asia and Argentina, economies 
did nor impact countries like India. It was widely believed that globalization and 
decoupling theory could co-exist i.e., economies even when following open policies 
could remain relatively de-coupled from adverse global fallouts.
However, the world recession of 2008 has exposed the earlier belief. It is not possible for 
economies to remain as ‘hermit economies’, which is insulated from rest of the world 
in  adverse  times.  Economies  of  the  world  including  India,  China  and  other  emerging 
economies were also impacted by the global crisis, though to a lesser degree. However, as 
they pursue open policies they would increasingly be coupled making them vulnerable 
and susceptible to adverse global fallouts.
The coupling neither be geographic nor be selective but is global in nature. Problems 
of Greece and Spain can also impact countries such as India and China.
20.5 GLOBALIZATION WOULD ALSO BRING ITS OWN SET OF 
CHALLENGES
While  globalization  does  provide  for  means  of  betterment for economies, it has  some 
inherent challenges which will have to be addressed:
(1)  While decisive thrust on exports is required, there would be pressures for liberal 
imports which could create issues in the domestic sector by making imported goods 
cheaper threatening domestic goods. Already, the Indian market has a large number 
of low-priced Chinese goods.
(2)  With easing of restrictions on inflows there could be a surge on foreign funds which 
could have an adverse impact like appreciating home currency and hurting exports 
especially for a country like India (explained in the section on Exchange Rate later).
(3)  It could lead to increase conspicuous consumption or ‘consumerism’ leading India 
into  a  consumption-driven  from  investment-driven  economy.  This  can  lead  to 
lopsided  development  neglecting  the  interests  of  the  masses.  Greater  production 
of goods demanded and lesser production of those which are less-demanded. Any 
consumerism also leads to lower savings in the economy.
(4)  The  biggest  challenge  of  globalization  would  be  in  making  the  domestic  sector 
globally competitive, ability co withstand global competition and make inroads into 
global markets.222 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(5)  The other is about expectations from globalization. It is not’ to provide answers for 
larger issues of poverty, unemployment, reducing regional imbalances or other such 
issues.
As mentioned previously, it is all about achieving integration with the rest of the world, 
global  competitiveness  as  the  key  to  globalization.  Therein,  lies  the  challenge  of  the 
ability of the  government to change the misconception  of globalization .The Economic 
Reforms of 1991 comprising ofl iberalization,p rivatization and globalization seeking to 
achieve domestic and global competitiveness  ,increased share  in global trade, efficient and 
competitive domesticm  anufacturing base,hi ghergro wth driven by manufacturing sectorand  
exports.
The increased growth, would ‘over a period of time’, bring about overall development. 
And the government in letting economic reforms to deliver should also be conscious of 
the fact that answers to the larger issues of poverty, unemployment, regional imbalances 
lie within ‘its’ domain.
A criticism of the economic reforms of not delivering in these areas or not impacting 
social issues, is an acceptance, by the government, of not being able to clearly delineate 
deliverables from economic reforms from ‘deliverables falling within government’ own 
domain.
20.6 IMPACT ON INDIAN SOCIETY SO FAR
Indian  society  is  one  among  the  oldest  in  the  world,  varied  and  complex  in  its 
heritage.  It  has  a  diverse  culture  of  unity  in  diversity;  having  withstood  the  colonial 
rule  but  yet  impacted,  with  society  entrenched  and  weaved  around  considerations  of 
race,  religion,  caste,  community,  language  and  region.  A  heterogeneous  society  with 
overriding  concerns  of a low  income economy and large-scale poverty inherited post­
Independence.  The  painstaking  rebuilding  of  the  economy  was  a  slow  and  gradual 
process ,culminating in th e process  o f a series of reforms  lifting  growth  ,economic 
empowerment and improvement in standards of living ofi tsp eople.T hisis not to s ay that
pove rty isno lo ngeran iss ue.Highe rgrowth  hasled to a reduction  in poverty levels.But,rural 
India  wher e the heart o lIn dia re side s ,by  and lar ge,has not un derg one  any signif icant
transforma tion and asociety still,w  ith atradition aloutlo ok and cons ervativebeliefs.  
Reforms and their impact on economy and the people have largely been around urban 
India. The  economic perspec tive has been dealt i n the p revio us sections. An attempt is
made here to understa nd howithas  affe cted liveso furban  India.        
             
Growing Middle Class
A direct impact of globalization widely accepted is the growing middle class, especially 
China and India as a part of Brazil, Russia, India, China and S. Africa (BRICS) economies, 
a  potential  market  of  the  future  with  definite  increased  income,  enhanced  purchasing 
power, demand for better variety of goods and distinct improved and changed life style.INWARD AND OUTWARD-LOOKING ECONOMIES’ GLOBALIZATION 223
This  is  being  observed  not  only  in  metro  cities  but  also  spreading  across  tier  2  and 
3 cities.
This class is creating a niche for newer goods attracting more foreign companies to set 
up shops. The ‘mall culture’ as shopping and entertainment under one roof, is gradually 
spreading across a large number of cities, witnessing a large number of foot falls. ‘Fast 
food’ is gradually gaining acceptability amongst the middle class. Dining out which was 
once only for the elite society, has now become a common feature of the growing middle 
class.
Global Goods and Services
As has been addressed earlier, one of the objectives which globalization seeks to achieve, is 
to enlarge the choice set’ of a wider and diversified basket of goods and services, available 
globally, at ‘affordable’ prices for the people in India. Today, goods and services are moving 
pan India, without any nationality but as brands, reaching different sections of people. 
Another notable feature has been goods and services fit every class of consumer.
Information Symmetry
Globalization  has  not  only  increased  choice  set,  but  also  provided  for  ‘information 
symmetry’ enabling them to take informed decisions, on their requirements and the best 
bet for them. This is complete contrast to the earlier information asymmetry, which often 
resulted in decisions based on the seller of goods, rather than own perception about goods/ 
services. These information gaps have now been sealed. This has raised levels of awareness
of the people who are now better informed. It has also raised levels of knowledge of people 
 
cutting across different age groups.
Mobile Telephony
One of its biggest contributions has been the spread of affordable mobile telephony even 
into villages, achieving a penetration level of over 80 per cent in about five years. Villages 
which were earlierc ut-offfro mthe  com munication linksduet o adv ersetopogra phy,difficult 
and hilly  terrainsarenoww ell- cove red.Ithasdefin ite ly im  proved communicationsand also the 
lifestyleoft hep eople in  gen eral.  
Social Networking
An outcome of globalization has been the spread of social networking sites which has 
allowed a novel way to connect with people irrespective of their location. It provides a 
wide platform for ‘faceless communication’ and ‘free and frank expression’ of views almost 
instantaneously across the world. It has allowed ‘discovery’ of friends and acquaintances, 
of connecting with those people who had lost contact or whose whereabouts were not 
known. This has led to a more ‘open society’ not bound by caste, creed or religion.224 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Cross Border Cultural Engagement
Thanks  to  the  growing  middle  class  for  increasing  income,  together  with  air  travel 
becoming  cheaper,  has  promoted  cross  border  tourism,  with  many  Indians  travelling 
abroad for vacations and holidays, increasing their exposure to different people and culture 
of different countries. Further, there is also an increase ‘in bound tourism’ with more and 
more foreigners visiting in India which has increased cross border cultural engagement. 
This has led to better understanding and acceptability of different cultures and developing 
mutual respect of each other.
Emergence of a Harmonized Culture
Globalization has resulted in not only greater cross border cultural engagement, but also 
marks emergence of a harmonized culture, with cross border acceptability. This culture 
can be seen, in the perceived preferences for unisex personal wear, celebrations such as 
fathers, mother’s and valentine’s day. This harmonized culture cuts across caste and creed, 
fostering a cohesive society.
Changing Role of Women
Women have always occupied centre stage in society. There are an increasing number of 
women today who are seeking a career, being independent, leading a life as they wanted, 
rather than being directed by a family. The more important aspect is acceptance of this 
fact by the society, of going beyond running homes and marriage as the ultimate for any 
girl. They today have the same status as their male counter parts, commanding respect 
from them. Many Indian women have reached the top of the ladder both in India as well 
as globally. Many jobs which were considered as male bastion are now being performed 
by women. Flying aircrafts, army, police, etc., now have sizeable women participation. 
Dowry  system  which  virtually  had  become  institutionalized  in  the  past  has  seen  a 
decline.
However, can we say that this globalization has not impacted society’ in any adverse 
manner? While globalization has been able to expand the middle class, there is now an 
upper and a lower’ middle class with wide income in equality. It has led to consumerism. 
But it cannot be attributed to the process of globalization, as in general income levels have 
increased and as mentioned previously, globalization has only allowed for increase in the 
choice set for the consumers’.
But the present society has become more materialistic; life styles have become fast 
tracked, lesser time for relationships, with everyone in a rat race of out doing the other. 
Satisfaction levels have become relative and craving for more. Nothing wrong with this, 
except that it has led to increase in health disorders and an early ‘burn out’ of the people.
Even  though  women  have  now  changed  and  bigger  role,  crime  against  them,  in 
particular has increased. Cases of physical abuse, marital discords leading to divorcesINWARD AND OUTWARD-LOOKING ECONOMIES’ GLOBALIZATION 225
have only increased. Newer concepts of ‘live in relationships have emerged. Urban India 
has become more liberal and modern in outlook especially the young generation. Their 
addiction to the internet and social networking sites has led to their abuse. Extensive use 
of mobile for purposes, other than communication has increased, resulting in distraction 
and taking them away from studies.
There  is  also  an  exodus  of  students  going  abroad  for  higher  studies  and  seeking 
employment overseas, resulting in ‘brain drain’ from India.
Can it be said that globalization has been a bane for society? Globalization is not only 
about India, it has been a wave encompassing the world economy and cannot be seen as a 
bane either from the economy or societal perspective. It is not about an option but about 
acceptance as part of global integration. As a process, it cannot be faulted and its abuse is 
not a fault of the process. Social ills seen as fallout of globalization have always been there 
only that now they have been highlighted. Globalization is about economic betterment 
and the benefits of such betterment will always be in the society itself. Yes, some may 
benefit more others less, but benefits will always be there.
People, society and economy are integral in any development process. Reforms are 
aimed at not only uplifting the economy as a whole but also provide better standards of 
living for its people. Globalization is getting the ‘best’ at the door step of people. It is about 
our people benefiting from others. It is a blend of the world economy looking for newer 
markets and our people getting the best of the world. The world order is changing, so 
also has to be our thinking and perceptions. It is about accepting change. The endeavour 
should be how to reach out to a larger cross section of people? How to overcome the 
hurdles which come in the way?
Globalization  today is not a subject matter of debate, but a natural process driven 
across economies, as a necessity, for meeting own needs of economies.

CHAPTER21
GOING FORWARD—
INDIA AND 
GLOBALIZATION
21.1. TR ADESTRATEGIES
We have previously discussed about concepts and objectives of globalization. But how did 
India go forward? Firstly, it was the Economic Reforms of 1991, which liberalized inflows 
of goods and services and also capital inflows as a signal of gradual and calibrated opening 
of the economy and at the same time a distinct thrust and focus on promotion of exports 
not that of surpluses’ but catering to the global market in terms of demand, tastes and 
preferences.
As a strategy to promote exports there are two textbook strategies one which is the 
export-led growth’ strategy and the other as the ‘growth-led exports’ strategy. An export- 
led growth strategy is of recent origin in the nineties, resulting out of the experience of the 
South-east Asian economies essentially comprising of Thailand, Malaysia, South Korea 
and Indonesia in the late eighties and early nineties. They were hailed as the Asian tigers'.
In a short span of time, they were able to accelerate the rate of growth, increase per 
capita  income  providing  for  all  round  development  of  such  economies,  by  a  distinct 
openness, liberal foreign investment and a strong focus on exports. Thus, the strategy of 
exports increasing overall growth rates in such economies in a very short time, were also 
known as ‘butterfly economies’ which is smaller economies ability to grow and expand 
income at a fast pace in short time frame.
This strategy subsequently got questioned by the crisis which struck these economies 
in the late nineties, as ‘contagion effect’ (spreading across all these economics) plunging 
them into currency crisis’. That is, complete erosion of faith in home currency (it will be 
discussed later).
It may be premature at this stage to say whether openness or the strategy was flawed 
bur sufficei tto  sa yher ethat itwa sn eithe rtheop enne ssnorthe  strat egyf ollowed butfromo ther 
facto rs(itw illbedi scu ssed lat er).Asast rategy, an ex port-ledg row threquires  re-orie ntingthe 
domesticsec torc ateringfo rexpor ts,allowin gli beralfore igninvest mentan dpromo tingexports 
from  thecountr y.      
However, this is possible for smaller and homogeneous economies, lesser pressures of 
population or regional imbalances, lesser structural rigidities, relatively greater flexibility 
for such transformation. Larger economies like India given the size, large agrarian base, 
diversity, intense population pressure, large-scale poverty and unemployment, regionalGOING FORWARD—INDIA AND GLOBALIZATION 227
imbalances, structural rigidities and inflexibilities make such  a strategy neither feasible.
appropriate nor desirable.
The  other  growth-led  export  strategy  is  more  relevant  for  economies  like  India.  A 
strategy also followed by the developed countries in the previous years. This strategy is 
slow, time-consuming but sustainable in the long run. It allows for growth to increase by 
expansion of the manufacturing sector, allowing for their maturity and gradually emerging 
as  competitive,  finding  foothold  in  global  markets  and  thus  increasing  merchandise 
(goods) exports.
Such a strategy also provides an incentive mechanism for the natural growth of export- 
oriented  industries  well-integrated  with  the  domestic  economy.  Both  India  as  well  as 
China have, however, blended both export-led growth and growth-led exports, as their 
strategy in their efforts at globalization.
Both  have  dedicated  certain  geographies  within  the  domestic  economy  to  cater 
exclusively for exports as part of export-led growth strategy and the remaining part of the 
economy following the growth-led export strategy. It is no longer the question about the 
strategy to adopt but that economies have to have a distinct openness and exports both 
integral to growth of economies in future.
BRANDING INDIA THROUGH 'MAKE IN INDIA'
The Gol is working under 6P protocol to make project branding a success, these 6P s are 
explained as under:
Program
In  persuit  of  branding  India  like  other  developing  economies  has  done  in  the  World, 
in  this  direction  the  Indian  Prime  Minister  Narendra  Modi  launched  the  Make  in 
India initiative on September 25, 2014, with the primary goal of making India a global 
manufacturing  hub,  by  encouraging  both  multinational  as  well  as  domestic  companies 
to manufacture their products within the country. Led by the Department of Industrial 
Policy and Promotion, the initiative aims to raise the contribution of the manufacturing 
sector to 25% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by die year 2025 from its current 
16%.  Make  in  India  has  introduced  multiple  new  initiatives,  promoting  foreign  direct 
investment,  implementing  intellectual  property  rights  and  developing  the  manufacturing 
sector. It targets 25 sectors of the economy which range from automobile to Information 
Technology (IT) and Business Process Management (BPM), the details of each can be 
viewed on the official site (www.makeinindia.com). It also seeks to facilitate job creation, 
foster  innovation,  enhance  skill  development  and  protect  intellectual  property.  The 
logo of ‘Make in India’ - a lion made of gear wheels - itself reflects the integral role of 
manufacturing in governments vision and national development.
Process
Make  in  India  is  much  more  than  an  inspiring  and  energising  slogan.  It  represents  a 
comprehensive  and  unprecedented  overhaul  of  existing  set  of  out-dated  processes  and 
policies framework.228 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
THE KEY PILLARS
1. New Processes: 2. New Infra­ 3. New Sectors:  4. New Mindset:
Government of structure: The  ‘Make in India’  Switching role 
India is initiating  government is  has identified 25  from regulator to 
new age reforms  committed to  sectors to promote  business partner 
to achieve its var­ develop industri­ with the detailed  is a strategic 
ious major pro­ al corridors and  information being  move of Gov­
jects like make in  build smart cities  shared through  ernment of India 
India etc. areals o  with state-of-the-  an interactive  to strengthen 
aligned with  art technology  web-portal. These  its commitment 
parameters of and high-speed  sectors are as  towards make in 
World Bank’s ‘ communication. follows: India.
Ease of Doing  Innovation and  • Automobile
•  Automobile 
Business’ index to  research activities 
Components
improve India’s  are supported by  • Aviation
ranking on it. a fast-paced reg­ •  Biotechnology
istration system  •  Chemicals
•  Construction
and improved 
•  Defence 
infrastructure  Manufacturing
for Intellectual •  Electrical Machinery
•  Electronic Systems
Property Rights
•  Food Processing
(IPR) registra­ •  IT and BPM
tions. Along with  •  Leather
•  Media And 
the development 
Entertainment
of infrastructure,  • Mining
the training  •  Oil And Gas
for the skilled  • Pharmaceuticals
•  Ports And Shipping
workforce for 
• Railways
the sectors is also  •  Renewable Energy
being addressed. • Roads And Highways
• Space
• Textiles And 
Garments
• Thermal Power
• Tourism And 
Hospitality
•  Wellness
• Zero defect zero effect          • Minimum goverment maximum governance
 
• Creative India Innovative India
 Com emak ein Indi a.Se llanywhere
But
Plan
A  strategy  that  inspires,  empowers  and  enables  in  equal  measure  was  required.  Thus, 
planning premise so designed is as follows:GOING FORWARD—INDIA AND GLOBALIZATION 229
(a)  Inspire confidence in India’s capabilities amongst potential partners abroad, the 
Indian business community and citizens at large;
(b)  Provide a framework for a vast amount of technical information on 25 industry 
sectors; and
(c)  Reach out to a vast local and global audience via social media and constantly keep 
them updated about opportunities, reforms, etc.
Partnerships
The Make in India initiative has been built on layers of collaborative effort of DIPP, 
acting as a backbone with Union Ministers, Secretaries to the Government of India, state 
governments, industry leaders, and various knowledge partners to debate and formulate an 
action plan for the next three years, aimed at raising the contribution of the manufacturing 
sector to 25% of the GDP by 2020.
Progress
Opening up of key sectors like Railways, Defence, Insurance and Medical Devices - for 
higher levels of Foreign Direct Investment. The ministry tie up with the World Bank group 
to identify areas of improvement aligned to World Bank’s ‘doing business’ methodology. 
An Investor Facilitation Cell (IFC) dedicated for the Make in India campaign was formed 
with an objective to assist investors in seeking regulatory approvals, hand-holding services 
through  the  pre-investment  phase,  execution  and  after-care  support.  DIPP  has  set  up 
Japan Plus’ team to facilitate and fast track investment proposals from Japan, similarly 
Korea Plus’, also being launched. Liberalised regulatory policies to facilitate investments 
and ease of doing business. Setting up of six industrial corridors across country, where 
Industrial Cities will be developed along these corridors. Since the launch of Make in 
India FDI inflows of USD 77 billion including a equity inflows of USD 56 billion has 
been received till March 2016. ‘Zero defect zero effect’ is a key phrase which has come 
to be associated with the Make in India campaign. According to Prime Minister, “Let’s 
think about making our product which has ‘zero defect’... and ‘zero effect’ so that the 
manufacturing does not have an adverse effect on our environment”.
In December 2015, Micromax announced that it would put up three new manufacturing 
units in Rajasthan, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Japan announced it would set up a 
USD 12 billion fund for Make in India-related projects, called the “Japan-India Make-in- 
India Special Finance Facility” after the  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s visit to the 
country. Huaweio pened ane wRe search and Development(R& D)camp usin Be ngaluru and is
in thep rocess ofsetting  up  atelecomha rdwarem anufacturi ng plantin Chennai.F rance-based  
LH Aviation  sig ned  aMemorandum  of Understa ndin g  (MoU )with OIS Advanced  
Technologies to setup  amanu factu ring  facility  in India for produ cing   drones.Foxconn  
announced  itwould in vest USD 5 b illion  over five year s for R&D and  creat ing  ahi-tech 
se miconductor manufactu ring facility in Maharashtra.Samsung s aid itwould manu facture
theSamsung  Z1  in itsplantin Noidaw hileG eneralMo torsd eclared th atitwou ld investUSD 1  
billion to beg in pro ducing automobilesin thecapitalstate.      230 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Make in India Strategy
     
 
 
 
       
 
Policies Framework
Various new age reforms has been initiated by the Government of India those are reflected 
in policies announced on various dimensions of the economy. Hie key aspects are discussed 
below:
Why India?
India should be the new investment capital because of the following:
•  767 million population falls in the age group of 15-64, and also one of the youngest 
country with mean age of 29 years and also projected 100% literacy level by 2025.
•  2nd largest Internet users base with 462 million Internet users.
•  Huge consumer market base of US$ 3.6 trillion by 2020 (BCG Report).
•  3rd largest economy in the world with size of US$ 8.6 trillion by Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) and is expected to rise to USS 20 trillion in size by 2025.
•  Fastest growing economy in the world with the rate of 7.6% in 2015-16.
•  India has an immediate investment opportunity of $1 trillion (Economic Times).
•  India enjoys stable/positive ratings from major credit rating agencies around the globe 
and has a total foreign exchange reserves of USS 371 billion as on 30th September 16.
•  2nd largest railway network in the world, used by 23 million travelers every day and 
2nd largest road network in the world stretching 3.3 million km.
•  12 major ports, 200 notified minor and intermediate ports.
Next Generation Infrastructure
To  become  new  age  investment  capital  next  generation  infrastructure  is  required,  its 
dimensions being reformed are:GOING FORWARD—INDIA AND GLOBALIZATION 231
Industrialization and Urbanization
1.  6 Industrial Corridors and 21 new nodal Industrial Cities to be developed:
•  Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC)
•  Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC)
•  Bengaluru-Mumbai Economic Corridor (BMEC)
•  Vizag-Chennai Industrial Corridor (VCIC)
•  Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIC)
•  Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) of 1504 km as the backbone
•  These 21 new nodal cities will be having advantages like; Large land parcels, 
Planned  communities,  ICT  enabled  infrastructure,  Sustainable  living,  Excellent 
connectivity- Road, Rail etc. DMIC is a mega infra structure project of USD 100 
billion with financial and technical aids from Japan, covering an overall length of 
1,483 km.
2. Doubling of Network of Roads by 2020.
3.. Railway projects such as Setting up of New Railway Stations, Mordernisation of 
Rolling stock, High Speed Railways, Port Mine connectivity etc. have been initiated 
for Modernising and better connectivity of Indian Railways.
4
4. Sagarmala project is started by the Govt, of India to modernize India’s Ports and 
Inland waterways with a project outlay of US$ 10 billion.
5 .  Th e Sma rt Citie s Mission having a  project  outlay of US$ 7.69 billion is p rogressing.  
6.   Aviation industry with targe to fbecoming 3r dlarges tby 2030.
N ewD  esign,I nnovation and R&  D 
3rd largest tech driven Start-up ecosystem globally and Tech Startups in India are 
expected to reach 11,500 in 2020.
‘Start-up India” was launched to foster entrepreneurship and promoting innovation. 
Intellectual Property Rights Policy launched in May 2016 is having salient features:
•  Strong TRIPS compliant policy framework, ease of access using World-class IT 
enabled patent offices.
•  Internationally  acclaimed  systems  for  International  Searching  and  Preliminary 
Examination of patent applications.
•  Augmentation  of  Manpower:  721  additional  technically  competent  Patent 
Examiners appointed.
•  T ime for examination of  patents  to come d own to 18 months fro m 7 y ears by  
March, 2018.
•  T ime for examination of trademarks to come d own to 1 month from 13  monthsby  
March,20 17.
Redefining Processes
A  more  holistic  idiology is  being followed in the  processes  already defined to foster th e  
vision 2020. Ihe philosophies so followed are:232 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Ease of doing business
•  Incorporation of a company reduced to 1 day instead of 10 days.
•  Power connection provided within a mandated time frame of 15 days instead of 18" 
days.
•  No. of documents for exports and imports reduced from 11 to 3.
•  Validity of industrial license extended to 7 years from 3 years.
•  Bankruptcy Code 2015 - New bankruptcy law, providing for simple and time-bour.c 
insolvency process to be operational by 2017.
•  Goods and Services Tax - Single tax framework by April, 2017.
•  Permanent Residency Status for foreign investors for 10 years.
Other reforms
1.  Online  portals  for  Employees  State  Insurance  Corporation  (ESIC)  and  Employees 
Provident  Fund  Organization  (EPFO)  for  Real-time  registration,  Payments  through 
56  accredited  banks,  Online  application  process  for  environmental  and  fores: 
clearances.
Department of Commerce, Gol has launched Indian Trade Portal, is a single poir.: 
for relevant information on measures called the non-tariff measures like standards 
technical  regulations,  conformity  assessment  procedures,  sanitary  and  Phytosanitan 
measures which may affect trade adversely.
New Sectors
The new sectors has been identified by the Government of India to foster vision 2020. 
FDI is acknowledged as a game changer for the economy.
Major FDI reforms
1.  Defence: Up  to 49% under automatic route and above 49% through Government 
route.
2.  Civil Aviation: 100% FDI under automatic route in Greenfield Projects, 74% FDI 
in Brownfield Projects, and beyond 74% for Brownfield Projects is under government 
route.
3. Broadcasting:
•  100% FDI in Broadcasting Carriage Services and down-linking of news channels.
•  Cable Networks: 100% FDI and in News channels: 49% FDI.
4.  Banking: FDI up to 74% with 49% under automatic route rest through government 
route.
5.  Railways:  100%  FDI  under  automatic  route  permitted  in  construction,  operation 
and maintenance of Rail Infrastructure projects.
6.  Construction: 100% FDI through automatic route and removal of minimum floor 
area and minimum capital requirement.
7.  Pharmaceuticals: The extant FDI policy on pharmaceutical sector provides for 100% 
under automatic route in Greenfield pharma, up to 74% under automatic route and 
100% under government approval in Brownfield pharma.GOING FORWARD—INDIA AND GLOBALIZATION 233
8. Plantation: Coffee, rubber, cardamom, palm oil tree and olive oil tree plantations has 
opened for 100% under automatic route.
9. Telecom: FDI up to 100% with 49% under automatic route.
10.  Insurance & Pension: New sectoral cap of 49% with foreign investment up to 26% 
to be under automatic route.
11.  Medical  Devices:  100%  FDI  under  automatic  route  for  manufacturing  of  medical 
devices has been permitted.
12.  E-Commerce:  100%  FDI  in  B2B  e-commerce,  Single  brand  retail  trading  entity 
permitted for B2C e-commerce and e-commerce food retailing.
13.  Retail:  100%  FDI  and  49%  under  automatic  route.  In  case  of  ‘state-of-art’  and 
‘cutting-edge  technology’  sourcing  norms  can  be  relaxed  subject  to  Government 
approval.  100%  FDI  is  under  automatic  route  in  Duty  Free  Shops  located  and 
operated in the Customs bonded areas.
14.  Allied  Agriculture:  Requirement  of  ‘controlled  conditions’  for  FDI  in  Animal 
Husbandry  (including  breeding  of  dogs),  Pisciculture,  Aquaculture  and  Apiculture 
has been waived off.
Types of Investors
Intellectual Property Rights
To make Indians recognize their own IPs, as also respect others’ IPs a policy was drafted 
after  key  stakeholder’s  consultation  with  nearly  300  stakeholders,  individuals  by  an 
IPR  Think  Tank,  31  departments  of  the  Gol  and  5  foreign  Governments.  The  Vision 
Statement  “Creative  India;  Innovative  India’*,  an  India  where  intellectual  property 
promotes advancement in science and technology, arts and culture, traditional knowledge 
and  biodiversity  resources.  The  ‘Cell  for  IPR  Promotion  Management  (CIPAM)’, 
setup  under  a  professional  body  under  the  guidelines  of  DIPP,  a  single  point  of 
reference for implementation of objectives so laid for National IPR Policy. Types of IPR 
In India are as follows:234 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Patent
A patent is granted for an invention which is a new product or process involving an 
inventive step and capable of industrial application. “New invention ’ means the subject 
matter has not fallen in public domain or that it does not form part of the state of the 
art; Inventive step is the feature(s) of the invention that involves technical advance as 
compared to the existing knowledge or having economic significance or both and that 
makes  the  invention  not  obvious  to  a  person  skilled  in  the  art.  Capable  of  industrial 
application means that the invention is capable of being made or used in an industry.
Design
Definition and significance: a design refers only to the features of shape, configuration, 
pattern, ornamentation, composition of colour or line or a combination thereof, applied 
to any article, whether two or three dimensional or in both forms by any industrial process 
or means which, in thef inished article,a ppealt o and areju dged solely by theey e.
Trade Mark
A trademark means a mark capable of being represented graphically and which is capable of 
distinguishing the goods or services of one undertaking from those of other undertakings. 
A trademark can be a sign, words, letters, numbers, drawings, pictures, emblem, colours 
or combination of colours, shape of goods, graphic representation or packaging or sound 
or any combination of the above as applied to goods or services.
Geographical Indications
A  geographical  indication  identifies  agricultural  or  natural  or  manufactured  goods  as 
originating  or  manufactured  in  the  territory  of  a  country  or  region  or  locality  in  that GOING FORWARD—INDIA AND GLOBALIZATION 235
territory, where a given quality, reputation or other characteristic of such goods is essentially 
attributable to its geographical origin and, in case where such goods are manufactured 
goods. One of the activities of either the production or processing or preparation of the 
goods concerned takes place in such territory, region, or locality, as the case may be.
Copyright
Copyright is a right given by the law to creators of literary, dramatic, musical and artistic 
works and producers of cinematograph films and sound recordings. In fact, it is a bundle 
of  rights  including,  inter  alia,  rights  of  reproduction,  communication  to  the  public, 
adaptation and translation of the work.
Semiconductor Integrated Circuits Layout-Design
The aim of the Semiconductor Integrated Circuits Layout-Design Act 2000 is to provide 
protection of Intellectual Property Right (IPR) in the area of Semiconductor Integrated 
Circuit Layout-Designs and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Plant Variety Protection
Protection  granted  for  plant  varieties,  the  rights  of  farmers  and  plant  breeders  and  to 
encourage the development of new varieties of plants.
NATIONAL IPR POLICY, 2016
National IPR Policy on 12th May 2016.
The National IPR Policy is a vision document that aims to create and exploit synergies 
between all forms of intellectual property (IP), concerned statutes and agencies. It sets in 
place an institutional mechanism for implementation, monitoring and review. It aims to 
incorporate and adapt global best practices to the Indian scenario. This policy shall weave 
in the strengths of the Government, research and development organizations, educational 
institutions,  corporate  entities  including  MSMEs,  start-ups  and  other  stakeholders  in 
the  creation  of  an  innovation-conducive  environment,  which  stimulates  creativity  and 
innovation across sectors, as also facilitates a stable, transparent and service-oriented IPR 
administration  in  the  country.  The  broad  contours  of  the  National  IPR  Policy  are  as 
follows:
Vision Statement
An India where creativity and innovation are stimulated by Intellectual Property for the 
benefit of all; an India where intellectual property promotes advancement in science and 
technology, arts and culture, traditional knowledge and biodiversity resources; an India 
where knowledge is the main driver of development, and knowledge owned is transformed 
into knowledge shared.236 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Mission Statement
Stimulate a dynamic, vibrant and balanced intellectual property rights system in India to:
•  foster creativity and innovation and thereby, promote entrepreneurship and enhance 
socio-economic and cultural development, and
•  focus on enhancing access to healthcare, food security and environmental protection, 
among other sectors of vital social, economic and technological importance.
The policy lays down the following seven objectives:
1.  IPR  Awareness:  Outreach  and  Promotion-  Generation  of  IPRs:  To  create  public 
awareness about the economic, social and cultural benefits of IPRs among all sections of 
society;
2.  Generation of IPRs- To stimulate the generation of IPRs;
3.  Legal and Legislative Framework: To have strong and effective IPR laws, which balance 
the interests of rights owners with larger public interest;
4.  Administration and Management: To modernize and strengthen service-oriented IPR 
administration;
5.  Commercialization of IPR: Get value for IPRs through commercialization;
6.  Enforcement  and  Adjudication:  To  strengthen  the  enforcement  and  adjudicatory 
mechanisms for combating IPR infringements;
7.  Human Capital Development: To strengthen and expand human resources, institutions 
and capacities for teaching, training, research and skill building in IPRs;
The National Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Policy will endeavor f or a CreativeI ndia;
Innovative India”
21.4 NATIONAL IPR POLICY- ACHIEVEMENTS SO FAR.
The National Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Policy 2016 was adopted on 12.5.2016 
as a vision document to guide future development of IPRs in the country. This has led to 
the following achievements:-
(i)  Strengthening of Institutional Mechanism The administration of Copyright Act,
1957  and  Semiconductor  Integrated  Circuits  Layout-Design  Act,  2000  has  been 
transferred to Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion. This has enabled an 
integrated approach and synergy between different IP offices and Acts. The Copyright 
Board is now merged with the Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB).
(ii)  Reducing  Pendency  and  clearing  of  backlog  Due  to  various  steps  and initiatives 
undertaken  by  the  Government  there  is  a  drastic  reduction  in  pendency  in  IP 
applications.  The  patent  applications  pending  for  examination  have  reduced 
significantly.  Automatic  issuance  of  electronically  generated  patent  and  trademark 
certificates has been introduced now.GOING FORWARD—INDIA AND GLOBALIZATION 237
(iii)  Increase in Filings Patent filings have increased by nearly 7% and Trademark filings 
have increased by nearly 28% recently.
(iv)  IP  Process  Re-engineering  Patent  Rules,  2003  has  been  amended  to  streamline 
processes and make them more user friendly.
(v)  Creating IPR Awareness IPR Awareness programs have been conducted in over 200 
academic  institutions, including rural schools through satellite communication, and 
for industry, police, customs and judiciary.
(vi)  IPRs  in  School  Syllabus  Content  on  IPRs  has  been  included  in  the  NCERT 
curriculum of Commerce stream.
(vii)  Technology and  Innovation Support Centres (TISCs) In conjunction with WIPO, 
6 TISCs have been established in various institutions across different states.
(viii)Global Innovation Index (GII) India’s rank in the Gil Report issued by WIPO has 
improved from 81st in 2015 to 57th place in 2018.
(ix)  IPR  Enforcement  Toolkit  for  Police  A  IPR  Enforcement  Toolkit  have  been 
prepared to assist police officials in dealing with IP crimes, in particular, Trademark 
counterfeiting and Copyright piracy.

CHAPTER22
EXPORT-LED GROWTH
STRATEGY—SEZs
EXPORT STRATEGIES
India as parr of this strategy has set up the following exclusively for promoting exports 
from the country.
Special Economic Zones (SEZ).
(1)
Agriculture Export Zones (AEZ).
(2)
(3) Electronic Software Technology Parks (ESTP).
(4) Electronic Hardware Technology Parks (EHTP). 
(5) Export-oriented Units (EOU).
The most important or the driver of the export-led growth strategy is being followed first 
by China and then also by India. It is for promoting SEZs for increasing exports and also 
accelerating the overall growth rate of economies.
SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONE (SEZ)
As  mentioned  previously,  export-led  growth  strategy  involves  dedicated  geographies 
exclusively for exportables from the country. SEZ is a defined geographical area clearly 
demarcated  with  boundary,  within  the  domestic  economy,  but  insulated,  known 
as SEZ.
To provide with a crude example something like a prison insulated from the outside 
world.  Or  it  is  almost  like  having  another  country  within  the  same  country  from  an 
economic perspective. The SEZs are only physically located in the country' but for all 
practical purposes they are as if outside the country and are deemed foreign areas.
With the concept of SEZ, two other concepts emerge—one is the domestic tariff area 
(DTA) which is the rest of the domestic economy and the other, rest of the world (ROW). 
The SEZs have world-class infrastructure for manufacturing goods and service providers 
exclusively for exports. No duties or taxes are payable in the SEZs. All goods coming into 
the SEZs either from the DTA or ROW would not attract any duty or taxes. No import 
duty is payable on any imports into the SEZs.
Private and foreign companies can set up industries without any restrictions from the 
government, except for a small negative list which would not be allowed. Producers in theEXPORT-LED GROWTH STR ATEGY—SEZs 239
SEZs would enjoy tax holiday for five years on profits earned and 50 per cent taxes would 
be payable for the next five years. Labour laws are flexible and contractual employment is 
permitted. A slight modification to the provisions of the SEZ act has been imposition of 
minimum alternate tax (MAT) on profits earned inside SEZs'.
The basic logic is allowing production without any hindrances of either infrastructure 
or  the government or labour issues. The  other  is to attract private sector and foreign 
investment.  Ideally,  the  entire  production  structure  in  an  economy  should  operate 
similarly. However, it may not be possible for large economies as a whole thus the need to 
create pockets of ideal conditions.
Lack  of  such  conditions  lead  to  delayed  production,  increased  cost  of  transactions 
and  excessive documentation  required for exports, which would all be resolved at the 
SEZs. SEZs in China have largely been responsible for increasing their exports and overall 
growth besides attracting significant foreign investment.
Key Features of Special Economic Zones (SEZs)—China and India
1 S. No. 1 Features China India
1. Nature Manufacturing hubs,  Same, except that apart from 
integrated townships with  manufacturing also processing. 
commercial, residential,  Separate SEZ for service sector.
complete with all facilities.
2. Infrastructure Government provided. Private developers.
3. Location Strategic coastal areas. Coastal and land-locked areas.
4. Decision on  Government. Private sector.
location
5. Size Big over 20,000 hectares. Small minimum of 500 hectares for 
multi-products.
6. Number 5 (all operational). 423 (formally approved)
7. Tax holiday Selective. All. SEZ developers, units 
in SEZ.
8. Drivers Government-driven, well  Private sector-driven.
thought out locations.
9. Government Active and direct. Passive only in giving approval 
remaining by the private sector.
10. Ownership Government. Private sector.
It may be observed that there are notable differences between the Chinese and Indian 
SEZs. China took a lot of time in deciding the locations of SEZs after considering all 
aspects  such  as  strategic  and  proximity'  to  important  centres.  SEZs  are  driven  by  the 
Government in China while their counterparts in India are being driven by the private 
sector.
SEZ and EPZ
The government prior to SEZs had the concept of export processing zones (EPZs) also 
known as free trade zones, first one being the following:240 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Kandla  Free  Trade  Zone  (KFTZ)  during  1965,  followed  by  seven  other  EPZs  in  the 
country.
Santa Cruz Electronic Export Processing Zone (SEEPZ), Mumbai.
Visakhapatnam Export Processing Zone (VEPZ), Andhra Pradesh.
Surat Export Processing Zone (SEPZ), Gujarat.
Noida Export Processing Zone (NEPZ), Uttar Pradesh.
Falta Export Processing Zone (FEPZ), West Bengal.
Chennai Export Processing Zone (CEPZ), Tamil Nadu.
Cochin Export Processing Zone (CEPZ), Kerala.
The experience with EPZs has not been particularly good in terms of export performance 
and there are a number of inherent limitations. Activities were primarily processing in 
nature.They have played only a supplementary role in increasing overall exports from the 
country and have logistics issues. The SEZs are seen as a way out for the EPZs. There are 
some key differences between the earlier EPZs and the now promoted SEZs.
S.No. Features EPZs SEZs
1. Role Supplementary  in  Primary and dominant role in exports 
increasing exports. increasing exports and improving share 
in world trade.
2. Nature Only  export-oriented  Integrated townships with all facilities.
activities.
3. Area norms Not specified. Minimum 500 hectares for mulri 
products and 100 hectares for single 
products.
4. Infrastructure Government provided. Private developers.
5. Range of activities Primarily processing and  Manufacturing and IT, sector-specific.
some manufacturing.
6. Value addition norms Yes. No.
7. Foreign investment Not permitted. Permitted.
8. Sale to DTA Up to a specified  Against foreign exchange only.
percentage of 
production.
9. Domestic banks No. Yes. Would operate as off-shore banking
units (OBU) and the same status as if 
operating outside the country.
The SEZs are much broader and will play a more dominant role in increasing exports and 
also accelerating private and foreign investments, than EPZs.
Status of Special Economic Zones (SEZs) in India
As, a first step all the EPZs have now been designated as SEZs. Promotion of SEZs in 
India is through the SEZs Act 2005. The government has formally approved 423 SEZs. 
Though in recent times due to global slowdown and also problems of land acquisitions the EXPORT-LED GROWTH STRATEGY —SEZs 241
pace in setting up of SEZs as slowed down. Once all the SEZs are operational, it would 
have come across an investment o fo ver₹ 5, 00,000 crores,th ehig hestev erin  Indiaout sidethe 
gov ernment and  provide direc templ oyment to ov er10 lak h peopleand an other10 lakh  as
indirect employ ment.
It is likely to increase the exports exponentially and double our share from the present 
level of just over 1 per cent in world exports of goods over the next decade. SEZs in India are 
seen as a signal of the high degree of openness, innovativeness, unparallel, unprecedented, 
bold initiatives surpassing even China in terms of the number and expected wide impact 
of such SEZs in India. They are the next generation drivers of exports, investments and 
growth  and  also  have  the  potential  and  power  to  transform  the  economy  beyond  the 
realms of reality.
Opposition to SEZs
There are a number of reasons for the SEZs model shrouded with controversies some 
genuine, others mere apprehensions and some misplaced notions.
(1)  First and foremost is the revenue loss to the government on account of various tax 
       
exemptionsofover₹1,00,000 crores.
                   
This is true, however, but then the tax exemptions should be seen in the larger
                 
context of overall gains likely to accrue, that of increased exports, investments and 
                     
employments generated. In any case, tax exemptions are not for ever but only for five
     
years.Already MAThasbeen introduced recently.
               
(2) Lack  of transparency  in  land  acquisition, exploitative tendencies of real estate
           
developers, issues relating  to  resettlement and  rehabilitation  of those displaced.
                   
These are genuine concerns. But the recently passed land bill is likely to address these
concerns.
           
(3) Arable and fertile land would be acquired for SEZs adversely affecting production 
           
and threatening food security.Thisisnotbroughtoutby facts.
                   
All SEZs once operational will occupy only 0.015 per cent of the land area and 
                       
onl.y 0.1 percentofthearableland in thecountry.Thisisnotany materialshiftaway from
         
agricultureto affectproduction orfood security in thecountry.
                         
(4) Private developers will view SEZs more as real estate project rather than  the
                   
infrastructure projects. The government to  obviate this has strict area norms and 
completion schedules.
                   
(5) Units would  get relocated  from DTA into  SEZs to  take benefit of various tax 
                   
exemptions. The objective of SEZs is to promote exports and only those units would 
                     
get relocated who have sizeable export market and not those who view DTA as their
markets.
                   
(6) SEZs would create ‘islands of prosperity’ and ‘oceans of glooms’ accentuating inter-
 
and intra-regionalimbalances.
           
SEZs are supposed to be developed through private resources and as self-contained 
                   
for all public utilities insulated from DTA. Investments being made in SEZs will
             
definitely havemultipliereffectbeneficialfortheareaaround SEZs.242 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(7)  The  heavy  investment  made  by  private  developers  would  ‘crowd-out’  private 
investment in the manufacturing sector leading to their lesser growth. This is solely 
perceived but not borne out by facts.
(8)  Resources available within DTA would get diverted from DTA into SEZs adverse) • 
impacting investment in DTA.
All the SEZs together constitute a very small part of the DTA and can at best have 
very limited impact on domestic resources. However, SEZs would also provide for 
local employment and market for local goods.
(9)  Even a country like China which has pioneered the concept of SEZs has only five 
SEZs, whereas in Indiat herew illbe  m oretha n fivehun dred SEZs.The gove rnment:has 
bee n criticized foracting  in abundancehaster athert han ac autious approach  in approving 
SEZsin India.  
On first look the criticism is well-taken. However, it is better to understand each 
SEZs in China is spread over 30,000 hectares. The largest SEZ in China at Shenzen 
is over 49,000 hectares.
Even  the  largest  SEZs  and  only  a  few  of  them  in  India  would  not  be  over 
10,000 hectares. Many of them will be in the range of 1000-2000 hectares. India's 
topography does not permit bigger SEZs without encroaching arable land and the 
already endangered forest cover.
The other is the fact that there has been tremendous positive response from the 
private sector and confidence in the success of SEZs in India. The government did 
not want to dampen the spirits of the private sector.
Moving Forward in SEZs
Most of the issues around SEZs have now been resolved and the government is committed 
to ensure timely completion of the projects which are already notified. Notifications of 
those already approved ensure that the developers do not violate area norms. However, still 
there are deeper issues in going forward in SEZs in India.
(1)  So far, all the work relating to SEZs is being handled by the Ministry of Commerce. 
Government of India.
It may be difficult for the Ministry to address the operational bottlenecks, exercising 
effective control and supervision on private developers. This may increasingly become 
difficult in future.
There  will  be  a  need  for  an  independent  government  body  to  have  complete 
responsibility of development, growth of SEZs in India. Something like the IRDA, 
SEBI and other regulators in the economy. But therein lies the catch of the regulator 
not bringing back ‘regulations’. It is to play the role of a facilitator, providing oversight 
mechanism permitting rather than ‘preventing.
(2)  From  the  approvals  given  by  the  central  government,  SEZs  is  concentrated  in 
Southern states (44 per cent) and western India (29 per cent) and are mostly in the 
area of IT and allied areas. This could have implications both for inter- and intra- 
regional imbalances.EXPORT-LED GROWTH STR ATEGY—SEZs 243
Over 66 per cent of the approval provided is for IT, ITeS, biotechnology' and other 
services and not for manufacturing hubs as in the case of China.
(3)  Similarly many SEZs are in landlocked areas in UP, Punjab and Haryana. How do 
they find an exit route for export of products?
(4)  There would be a need to upgrade infrastructure around SEZs especially road, big 
enough to accommodate the increased traffic coming out of SEZs.
Similarly ports and airports would need to be upgraded which would not come in 
the domain of SEZs developers. China has constructed huge warehousing facilities 
near  the  ports  and  airports.  India  needs  to  construct  similar  warehouses  and  also 
augment  capacities  of  existing  warehousing  facilities  at  all  the  major  ports  and 
airports.
The above would need to be addressed urgently by the government going forward. One 
thing is sure that there cannot be any rethinking on SEZs. It is too late to debate on its 
need or the model adopted. The SEZs model in India has to be made a workable and as a 
viable proposition and more importantly it has to deliver. That should the broad approach 
to be followed collectively by all concerned. SEZs in India as mentioned previously, has 
the potential to transform the economy but issues raised above would also need resolution.
This strategy in India, even though similar to the concept used in China, but strikingly 
different in them  odela dopted by India.As the first ofits ki nd i n theworld i n termsofthelar ge 
                         
numberof SEZs,theirrelativesmallsizes,many arelandlocked,privatesector-driven model.
In ‘its success in India’, will lie ‘its’ ability of being accepted and emulated as a
                 
strategy' for export-orientation and rapid transformation of economies. The recent global
             
slow down has impacted exports and also development of SEZs in India. But these are
                   
temporary and would reverse as economies begin to recover and so will the pace of growth 
               
ofSEZin future.
   
AGRIEXPORT/ECONOMICZONES(AEZs)
     
Agricultural sector in India offers a great scope of producing exportables. This helps the
                       
farmer in getting abetter priceforhisproduce besides dispenses the complex middle­men 
                   
route.Itisalso seen asoneofthewaysformodernization,technology diffusion and promoting 
                   
intensiveresearch and development.
 
India is the largest producer of various kinds of agricultural produce, as discussed in 
                       
the section on Agriculture, but not commensurate share in either total exports from the
                     
country  or world  exports of agricultural goods. Promoting  agri exports would  require
               
handholding of the farmers by the government unlike exporters of manufactured goods,
                 
given theirrelativelittleknowledgeofexportmarketsfortheirproduce.
                 
The concept of having similar zones like SEZs for agriculture-related products was
                   
mooted in the EXIM policy 2001-2002 (this policy is now known as the foreign trade
               
policy), to play the role of key facilitator in boosting agri exports of the country and also 
                 
amechanismforincreasing incomelevelsoffarmers.
           244 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Agriculture  being  a  state  subject  implied  a  large  role  of  the  state  governments. 
Development of such zones is largely the responsibility of the respective state governments 
in  identification  of  the  specific  products  over  clusters  and  in  geographical  contiguous 
areas. AEZs in India presently have been ‘product-specific’ spread across a number of 
clusters in different states arc as follows:
(1)  Fruits exports zones.
(2)  Flowers export zones.
(3)  Dry fruits exports zones.
(4)  Spices export zones.
(5)  Onion export zones.
(6)  Potato export zones.
(7)  Cereal export zones.
The above zones have achieved the first set of objectives of identification of agri exportables 
from India. However, their performance in terms of their increased exports has not been 
encouraging so far. Probably it is the apathy of the state government in their promotion or 
lack of vision in promoting agri exports.
Farmers also need to be sensitized, imparted knowledge and encouraged to export. 
However, as explained in the section on Agriculture, our traditional methods, absence of 
modernizing, technological advancements and R&D are some of the stumbling blocks in 
making AEZs really effective in increasing agri exports from the country.
The state governments also need sensitizing in playing their due role in making the 
AEZs a successful model and also for other economies to follow.
22.4 TECHNOLOGY PARKS AND EOU
Besides, SEZs and AEZs, as a way to promote the government has dedicated parks catering 
to needs of various sectors and assist in increasing their exports. Some of these parks are 
detailed below:
Software Technology Parks of India (STPI).
Electronic Hardware Technology Parks (EHTPs).
Biotechnology Parks (BTPs).
Export-oriented Units (EOUs).
All of these are a miniature version of the SEZs model in terms of being dedicated for 
exports with similar facilities. Even the foreign trade policy does not distinguish separately 
for  purposes  of  their  promotion  bur  treated  as  one  category  of  STPI/EHTP/BTP/EOU 
and the other category as SEZs addressed not by the policy but by the SEZ act.
These can also be seen as a part even though small part of India’s overall efforts at 
export-led growth strategy. These technology parks are also dedicated to promote exports 
of hardware, software and the emerging area of biotechnology from the country. These 
parks come under the Ministry of Information and Technology, Ministry of Biotechnology, 
respectively, of Government of India and can be set up by the private sector or even 
through foreign investment.EXPORT-LED GROWTH STRATEGY—SEZs 245
lhe units located in these parks enjoy similar benefits as those in SEZs such as tax 
holiday reviewed every year in the foreign trade policy but do have a sunset clause i.e., a 
time period by which the tax exemption would be withdrawable.
A certain percent can be sold in the DTA by the STPIs, EHTPs and BTPs as notified 
from time-to-time. Similarly, all these are also permitted to do inter unit sales and undertake 
sub-contracting. They also have to fulfill norms of positive Net Foreign Exchange Earnings 
(NFE) which is earning foreign currency over and over that paid through their imports.
These dedicated technology parks try to tap the immense overseas market for export of 
both hardware as well as software and also combine the inherent advantage which India 
enjoys in the services sector. Much of the increased exports of the services can be attribute 
to  these  technology  parks  in  recent  times.  At  present,  there  are  thirty-three  STPI  and 
twelve EHTPs spread throughout the country.
Export-oriented Units (EOUs)
As a concept, EOUs were units which had a great export potential but for logistics issues 
or circumstances, could not be located in any SEZ or EHTP or STPI, and were accorded 
the status of EOUs which entitled them to all the benefits available to any unit holder 
in an SEZs. EOUs are not location-specific and can be located anywhere in the country.
The concept of EOUs was mooted way back in 1981 and was seen as playing an 
important role in export reorientation till the SEZs came into the picture.
An EOUs should have am  inimum i nvestment i n planta nd machinery of₹1 00  lac.The 
statu sofan  EO Usalso ha ssimilar pre-cond itionslikeposi tiveN FEwhic h isex portsgrea terthan  
imports and earning  foreign exchangelikeunitsin S TPI s,EH TPsand B TPs.  
The foreign trade policy from time-to-time has laid down norms for EOUs such as 
minimum export performance, NFE to exports ratio. They are also permitted to sell in the 
DTA certain quantities as may be prescribed by the policy.
REPORT OF SEZ POLICY REVIEW COMMITTEE.
The Government had constituted a committee under the Chairmanship of Baba Kalyani 
to study the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) Policy of India. The committe submitted its 
report and following are the key recommendations.
•  Framework  shift  from  export  growth  to  broad-based  Employment  and  Economic 
Growth (Employment and Economic Enclaves-3Es).
•  Formulation of separate rules and procedures for manufacturing and service SEZs.
•  Shift from supply driven to demand driven approach for 3Es development to improve 
efficiency of investment-based on certain industries, current level of existing inventory 
in the region.
•  Enabling framework for Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) in 3Es in sync with State 
EoDB  initiatives.  One  integrated  online  portal  for  new  investments,  operational 
requirements and exits related matters.246 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
•  Enhance  competitiveness  by  enabling  ecosystem  development  by  funding  high 
speed multi modal connectivity, business services and utility infrastructure. Critical 
to  provide  support  to  create  high  quality  infrastructure  either  within  or  linked  tc 
the zones eg. High Speed Rail, Express roadways, Passenger/Cargo airports, shipping 
ports, warehouses etc.
•  Promote  integrated  industrial  and  urban  development-  walk  to  work  zones,  States 
and center to coordinate on the frame work development to bring linkages between 
all initiatives.
•  Procedural  relaxations  for  developers  and  tenants  to  improve  operational  and  exit 
issues.
•  Extension of Sunset Clause and retaining tax or duty benefits.
•  Broad-banding definition of services/allowing multiple services to come together.
•  Additional enablers and procedural relaxations.
•  Unified regulator for IFSC.
•  Utilizing Multi Services SEZ IFSC for all the inbound and out bound investment of 
the country.
•  Incentives for availing services from IFSC SEZ by domestic institutions.
•  Extension of benefit under services Export incentives scheme.
•  Allowing alternate sectors to invest in sector specific SEZs/ 3Es.
•  Flexibility of long term lease for developers and tenants.
•  Facility of sub-contracting for customers outside 3Es/SEZs without any restriction or 
cap at any level.
•  Specified  domestic  supplies  supporting  ‘Make  in  India’  to  be  considered  in  NFE 
computation.
•  Export  duty  should  not  be  levied  on  goods  supplied  to  developers  and  used  in 
manufacture of goods exported.
•  Flexibility in usage of NPA by developers and sale space to investors/ units.
•  Infrastructure status to improve access to finance and enable long term borrowing.
•  Promote  MSME  participation  in  3Es  and  enable  manufacturing  enabling  service 
players to locate in 3E.
•  Dispute resolution through arbitration and commercial courts.

CHAPTER23
FOREIGN TRADE POLICY
23.1 FOREIGN TRADE POLICY 2015-2020
Foreign Trade Policy 2015-2020 of India was declared on 1st of April, 2015. The new 
policy would boost exports and create jobs while supporting the Centres ‘Make In India 
ind ‘Digital India’ programmes. The broad objective is to focus on support co services and 
merchandise exports, number of very important initiatives such as focus on export of high 
value addition products, focussed on improving ease of doing business, debottlenecking, 
:o make services globally competitive and market diversification.
The Foreign Trade Policy 2015-2020 has been designed by including long term and 
medium term strategy to boost overall growth of India’s foreign trade by enhancing trade 
competitiveness.
By implementing Foreign Trade Policy (FTP 2015-20), the India’s share in world trade 
is expected to double from the present level of 3% by the year 2020. By taking measures for 
import substitution at one side, the forthcoming Foreign Trade Policy 2015-2020 focuses 
on increasing exports at the present scenario of increasing current account deficit. The new 
Foreign Trade Policy 2015-2020 includes necessary measures to boost productivity and earn 
exportable surplus at competitive rates in exports.
Aspects of the Foreign Trade Policy 2015-2020
The key highlights of the Foreign Trade Policy 2015-2020 are as follows:
1. Merchant Export From India Scheme (MEIS): The following five exports schemes 
with different kinds of duty scrips, have been merged into a single scheme titled 
Merchant Export From India Scheme (MEIS):
(i)  Focus Product Scheme (FPS)
(ii)  Market-Linked Focus Product Scheme
(iii)  Agri-infrastructure Incentive Scrip
(iv)  Focus Market Scheme
(v)  Vishesh Krishi Gram Udyog Yojana (VKGUY)
The main objective of Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) as per Indian 
Foreign Trade Policy 2015-20 (FTP 2015-20) is to offset infrastructural inefficiencies248 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
and  associated  costs  involved  in  export  of  goods/products,  which  are  produced/ 
manufactured  in  India,  especially  those  having  high  export  intensity,  employment 
potential and thereby enhancing India’s export competitiveness.
Entitlement under MEIS includes Exports of notified goods/products with ITCfHS] 
code, to notified markets as listed in Appendix 3B, shall be rewarded under MEIS. 
Appendix 3B also lists the rate(s) of rewards on various notified products [ITC (HS) 
code wise]. The basis of calculation of reward would be on realised FOB value of 
exports in free foreign exchange, or on FOB value of exports as given in the Shipping 
Bills in free foreign exchange, whichever is less, unless otherwise specified.
The following exports categories /sectors shall be ineligible for Duty Credit Scrip 
entitlement under MEIS, EXIM Policy 2015-20 (FTP 2015-20).
(i)  EOUs / EHTPs I BTPs/ STPs who are availing direct tax benefits/exemption.
(ii)  Supplies made from DTA units to SEZ units.
(iii)  Export of imported goods covered under paragraph 2.46 of FTP.
(iv)  Exports through trans-shipment, meaning thereby exports that are originating 
in third country but trans-shipped through India.
(v)  Deemed Exports.
(vi)  Red sanders and beach sand.
(vii)  Export products which are subject to minimum export price or export duty, 
(viii) Diamond Gold, Silver, Platinum, other precious metal in any form including
plain and studded jewellery and other precious and semi-precious stones.
(ix)  Ores and concentrates of all types and in all formations.
(x)  Cereals of all types.
(xi)  Sugar of all types and all forms.
(xii)  Crude/petroleum oil and crude / primary and base products of all types and all 
formulations.
(xiii) Export of milk and milk products.
(xiv) Export of Meat and Meat Products..
2.  Service  Exports  from  India  Scheme  (SEIS):  Served  from  India  Scheme  (SEIS)  has 
been replaced with Service Exports from India Scheme (SEIS). This scheme shall 
apply to “Service Providers located in India”. Thus, SEIS provide for rewards to service 
providers of notified services, who are providing services from India, regardless of the 
constitution or profile of the service provider The rare of SEIS scheme under Foreign 
Trade Policy 2015-20 is based on net foreign exchange earned on services. The reward 
issued as duty credit scrip, would no longer be with actual user condition and will 
no longer be restricted to usage for specified types of goods but be freely transferable 
and usable for all types of goods and services tax 3 debits on procurement of services 
/ goods. Debits would be eligible for CENVAT credit or drawback.The present rates 
of reward are 3% and 5%. The list of services and the rates of rewards would be 
reviewed after 30.9.2015.Free Foreign Exchange earned through international credit 
cards and other instruments, as permitted by RBI shall also be taken into account forFOREIGN TRADE POLICY 249
computation of value of exports under SEIS.As per Foreign Trade Policy 2015-20, 
SEIS is eligible to units of SEZs (Special Economic Zones).
3.  Export Promotion Capital Goods Scheme: EPCG scheme is one of the best export 
promotion schemes introduced by government under Foreign Trade Policy where in 
import of capital goods can be effected ar nil or concessional import customs duties 
based on the conditions specified in the customs notifications and export obligations. 
However,  EPCG  authorisation  holder  has  to  fulfill  export  obligation  against  the 
scheme specified, action is taken by the authorities to recover the import customs 
duty on defaulters through an institutional mechanism.
EPCG  authorisation  holders  will  not  get  the  benefits  of  exemption  from  Anti­
dumping duty and Safeguard and Transitional Product Specific Safeguard duty. This 
will boost indigenously manufacturer of capital goods while supplying capital goods 
under EPCG scheme. Under EPCG scheme, obtaining and submitting a certificate 
from independent chartered engineer, confirming the use of spare, tools refractory and 
catalysts imported for final redemption of EPCG authorisation has been dispensed 
with. At present, EPCG authorisation holders arc required to maintain records for 3 
years after redemption of authorisation. This 3 year period is reduced to 2 years. In 
due course, further reduction will be made as the paperless trade process takes place.
4.  Export Oriented Units and Software Technology Park Scheme: The key features of 
Export Oriented Units and Software Technology park scheme are:
(i)  EOUs and STPs have been allowed to share infrastructural facilities among 
themselves.  This  will  enable  units  to  utilise  their  infrastructural  facilities  in 
an optimum way and avoid duplication of efforts and cost to create separate 
infrastructural facilities in different units.
(ii)  Inter unit transfer of goods and services have been allowed among EOUs and 
STPs. This will facilitate group of those units which source inputs centrally in 
order  to  obtain  bulk  discount.  This  will  reduce  cost  of  transportation,  other 
logistics costs and result in maintaining effective supply chain.
(iii)  EOUs have been allowed facility to set up warehouses near the port of export. 
This will help in reducing lead time for delivery of goods and will also address 
the issue of unpredictability of supply orders.
(iv)  STP units, EHTP units, software EOUs have been allowed the facility to use all 
duty free equipment/goods for training purposes. This will help these units  in 
developing skills of their employees.
(v)  100 percent EOU units have been allowed facility of supply of spares/ components 
up to 2 percent of the value of the manufactured articles to a buyer in domestic 
market for the purpose of after-sale services.
(vi)  Time period for validity of Letter of Permission (LOP) for EOUs/EHTP/STPI/ 
BTP units has been revised for faster implementation and monitoring of projects. 
Now, LOP will have an initial validity of 2 years.
(vii)  A simplified procedure will be provided to fast track the de-bonding/exit of 
EOUs and STPs units. This will save time for these units and help in reduction 
of transaction costs.250 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The new foreign trade policy is based on the principle of simplicity as it had realigned 
multiple schemes into a single window' and promoted increased use of technology to reduce 
transaction cost and manual compliances. The measures proposed in the policy' are rational 
and in right direction to ensure the growth of India’s share in international trade.
23.2 CONCESSIONS AVAILABLE TO EXPORTERS IN DTA
The FTP is also responsible for various concessions available to exporters operating in the 
domestic tariff area (DTA) and also changes therein from time-to-time.
The exporters like their counterparts in SEZs are also eligible for various concessions as 
given below:
(1)  Advance  Authorization  Scheme  (AAS)—in  terms  of  the  FTP  for  those  exporters 
requiring imports of those goods  which are physically  incorporated  in the  exportable 
goods can import them without p ayment o fa ny custom o rim port du ty,bas ed on the
stan dard inputoutp ut norm  (SIO N)speci fied by Directorate Gener al ofFor eig n Trade,
Govern ment ofIndi a (D GFT) .There isamini mu m value add ition n orm of15 perc ent 
except forg emsand  jew  eller y wherethesenormsa rehig her.    
(2)  Duty-free  Import  Authorization  Scheme  (DFIAS)—under  this  scheme,  an 
exporter is allowed to import duty-free other inputs as may be required for exports 
including fuels, oil, energy, but with a minimum 20 per cent value addition norms 
and again subject to SION as mentioned above.
(3)  Duty Drawback Scheme—if any exporter is sourcing inputs for exports from the 
domestic market, then under the scheme the excise duty paid, or other taxes on such 
inputs are reimbursed to the exporter.
(4)  Export  Promotion  Capital  Good  Scheme  (EPCGS)—this  scheme  allows 
for  import  of  capital  goods  and  other  such  machines  as  may  be  required  by  an 
                   
exporter for exports atzero import duty,for selected  sectors such asengineering ,
                 
pharmaceuticals,etc.,(listisspecified in theFTP),butsubjectto an exportobligation ofsix 
                       
timestheduty saved oversix years.Forothercapitalimportsnoteligibleforimportatzero 
                   
importduty,they can beimported ataconcessionalimportduty of3 percentbutsubjectto 
                 
an exportobligation ofeighttimes,theduty saved over eight years.
 
(5)  Exchange Earners Foreign Currency Account (EEFC)—as a normal Indian 
resident, one cannot open a foreign currency account in India. However, an exporter 
or professionals earning in foreign currency in India have been permitted by RBI, to 
maintain foreign currency accounts with banks in India authorized to deal in foreign 
exchange. These accounts do not earn interest but allows for retention of 100 per 
cent of the export proceeds in these accounts. It saves the exporter from exchange rate 
fluctuations, besides the freedom for using the foreign currency for export promotion 
activities by the exporter.
What has been the impact of such schemes in promoting exports of the country?FOREIGN TRADE POLICY 251
India's Export Performance
The significant openness which started becoming visible in the nineties intensified from 
2000 onwards with a sharp focus given through the FTP has resulted in a reversal of the 
declining trend in global trade. However, the growth of the Indian economy in recent 
times has outpaced the trade growth or that trade growth has lagged behind the overall 
growth.
To draw comparisons with China, during 1950, India’s exports were more than that 
of China, however, gradually China overtook India. It may be interesting to note that 
Chinas share in manufactured exports stood at 1.8 per cent and India’s at 0.5 per cent 
during 1990 but presently China has become the largest exporter of manufactured goods, 
displacing even the US while for India share in global manufactured exports is only around 
one per cent. India’s export is only about 15 per cent of what China exports to the rest of 
the world. This is not to take away any credit to India on the export front which has seen 
some distinct focus and acceleration in the last few years. Except that the global recession 
has  adversely  affected  global  trade  including  exports  of  India  and  China,  resulting  in 
contraction of exports in the wake of slowdown of global trade.
There is an apparent turnaround since recent times but resulting out of steep depreciation 
of the Rupee. With signs of recovery in the US and Europe, exports are likely to pick up. 
The overall objective, as already covered in the FTP is to double our share by 2020. The 
composition of Indian exports has also undergone a change, diversified from an exporter of 
traditional and agricultural-based products to increased exports of manufactured goods which 
now account for over 69 per cent of the total exports and a relative decline in the share of 
exports of primary articles.
Notable  among  manufactured  exports  are  engineering  goods,  chemicals,  petroleum 
oil and lubricants (POL) products, textiles, leather products, handicrafts, and gems and 
jewellery.  Another  important  feature  is  the  changing  trading  partners  of  India  from 
the  dominant  US  economy  to  new  trading  partners  and  China  and  UAE  emerging  as 
top two trading partner countries. Also exports to countries such as Singapore, south- 
asian  countries  and  Sri  Lanka  are  increasing  due  to  bilateral  agreements  entered  into 
recently.
Newer markets comprising of Latin American-Oceania countries and African countries 
are likely to witness greater thrust in future. This is significant as part of the conscious 
attempts made by the government to ‘look East’ to reduce 'dependence on the West’.
Despite  these  appreciable  change  in  trading  partners  in  terms  of  the  quantum  of 
exports in value terms the major markets continue to be the US and European Union and 
it may takes ometo  seethe  eas tcoun triesactu ally becoming majorifnot equ altr ading  partners
ofIndiai n t hefut ure.  
What More Needs to Be Done to Increase Exports?
The FTP has played an important role in accelerating exports but can something more 
be performed which can further boost export growth or help like the Chinese experience.252 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(1)  Liberalization has touched all sectors such as industrial, financial, but not specifically 
the  export  sector  which  is  highly  restrictive  and  a  multiple  complex  regulatory 
framework, comprising of the Ministry of Commerce, DGFT and BOT, etc.
What  this  has  resulted  in  ‘indirect’  licensing  system,  registration  formalities 
for  various  facilities,  documentation  requirements  or  to  say  they  act  more  as 
impediments rather than the facilitating exports.
What is required? Simplified procedures, documentation and single window 
clearances for exporters similar to that for private sector in the manufacturing sector. 
Or simply liberalize the export sector and get rid of the government interface. 
The complex procedures, documentation, government interface and incidentally 
excessive have led to increased transaction costs, inordinate delays adversely affecting 
our competitive capabilities.
While export is a thrust area for the government but multiple government bodies 
dilute the  focus  such  as DGFT,  BOT, and the Ministry of Commerce. There is 
a need to closely look at all the government organs, their relevance, weeding out 
overlaps and ambiguities, with a leaner effective and efficient structure facilitating 
exports from the country.
(2)  The FTP is a 100 page document detailing micro aspects of exports, multiplicity of 
schemes, overlaps, not easy to comprehend. Can we have a simplified and easy to 
understand FTP?
(3)  The overall tone from the FTP appears to be an element of ‘trust deficit’ or a 
‘disconnect’  between  the  government  and  the  exporters  which  gets  evidenced 
from the micro-regulations. This has to be bridged with government and exporters 
becoming partners.
(4)  While acknowledging export as a thrust area, there is an apparent confusion of the 
thrust area within the subset of exports. Is it product, or markets? Which is priority? 
This cannot be decided by the government.
It can but provided it as a direct exporter. Priority, in the national interest should 
be deliberated with exporters by placing all facts before them and also challenges and 
then jointly arrive at an action plan for meeting the challenges.
(5)  Agricultural sector in India has great potential for increasing exports and earning 
maximum  foreign  exchange  given  their  zero-import  content.  The  performance  of 
AEZ has left much to be desired.
More focused attention needs to be given by the state governments in making 
agricultural sector contribute a larger share to the overall exports from the country.
(6)  The overall direction for promoting exports by the government is from the monetary 
incentive angle, but very little for strengthening the competitive abilities of Indian 
exports,  except  for  technology  upgradation  fund  scheme  (TUFS)  but  that  is  for 
textiles.
What  about  upgradation  of  quality  for  example,  in  leather  industry  or  even 
handlooms or for other products? Can there be fusion of traditional with the modern? 
The existing ‘incentive’ orientation has to pave way to ‘competitive orientation’.FOREIGN TRADE POLICY 253
(7)  India also needs to do something like what Japan has done previously that of zero 
tolerance’ or no defect policy’. China went for ‘mass-scale standardization to achieve 
desired quality levels. Can the government set bench marks for various goods to 
ensure qualities arc not comprised in exportables?
(8)  A lot is being talked about in recent times of export competitiveness being eroded 
because of appreciating home currency, making goods expensive in the international 
marker and thereby adversely affecting exporters in the home currency.
It needs to be understood, that as economies pursue greater openness, exchange 
rates will always be a variable and exports sensitiveness to such a variable, is myopic 
and not provide for long-term stable growth of exports.
Exports should be more a function of ‘quality’ rather than ‘prices’. The focus 
in promoting stable and sustainable export growth has to be more on better and 
improved quality, moving up the value chain, greater sophistication and diversified 
markets rather than looking at competitive abilities based on only prices.
(9)  All major countries of the world which can potentially become our trading partners 
have either an embassy or a high commission of the country, represented by a high 
commissioner or an ambassador.
Can we also see them as playing brand ambassador to Indian goods or a platform 
to  showcase  Indian  goods  or  become  a  conduit  between  the  importer  and  the 
exporter from India? It should not be difficult as each office also has commercial 
attache.
What is solely required is changed orientation and willingness of the government. 
This would make government true partners in increasing Indian exports.
(10)  Finally, India is a unique country, offering great diversity, almost similar to as being 
country  within  the  country.  Many  products  sold  from  India  in  the  international 
markets are not known for their Indian origin.
Understandably,  Indian  branding  may  not  be  possible,  but  branding  of  the 
product ‘being’ from India surely can be done.
Can the Indian Government do a similar branding like that of‘incredible India 
showcased for tourism, to promote Indian exports in a composite and comprehensive 
manner covering all goods and services.
India’s  ‘potential’  to  export  a  wide range  of  diverse  goods from  Kashmir  to 
Kanyakumari, from Gujarat to north-east states, from traditional, ethnic to modern, 
its herbs, medicinal plants is probably unknown to the World.
Can  the  government  do  a  global  publicity  building?  An  Indian  brand  image 
for tapping this latent potential not only to improve exports but also as an income 
source and also bring distant and remote places of India on national and global map.
India's Imports
As far as imports are concerned for a long time it was believed that it comprised of critical 
products such as food items and a fairly high proportion of import of fuels especially POL. 
Import of fuels was over 70 per cent of the total import basket. In recent years, the share 254 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
of fuels especially POL has come down to around 33 per cent. Import of commodities 
such as precious stones, gold and silver bullion, uncut and unpolished gems and jewellery, 
electronic goods, etc., account for almost 40 per cent of total imports.
Share of fertilizers imports and also that of edible oils and pulses have sharply increased 
in the last few years. Increased fertilizer imports are largely due to steep escalation in their 
international prices. While increase in imports of edible oils and pulses is on account 
domestic production not sufficient to match demand and to further prevent any pressures 
on their prices in the domestic market.
However, a discerning aspect of our structure of exports and imports of merchandize 
goods  is  the  fact  that  imports  have  always  outstripped  exports  continuously  post­
Independence.  In  no  given  year  our  exports  were  sufficient  to  meet  imports.  The 
implications will be examined in the next section.
India’s exports in recent times has begun to evolve, diversify in products and markets, 
moving up the value chain, creeping up its share in global trade, but these only mark 
an  initiation,  with  no  room  for  complacency,  require  greater  intensification  of  efforts, 
tapping the immense available potential, globally competitive, to make robust growth of 
exports a reality, and a driver of growth in future.
INDIA'S MAJOR TRADE PARTNERS.
•  India shipped US$323.1 billion worth of products around the globe in 2018. Noticed 
an increase of 1.7% since 2014 and a 9.2% gain from 2017 to 2018. Almost half of 
Indian exports by value were delivered to fellow Asian countries, 19% to Europe and 
18% to North America.
•  Export: India is exporting its products to more than 200 countries of the world. 
United States, UAE, Hong Kong, Singapore, China and United Kingdom are the 
largest export partners of India.
•  Import: India is importing from more than 170 countries of the world. China, USA, 
Saudi Arabia, UAE, Switzerland, Korea and Indonesia are the top countries from 
where India is importing various commodities.

CHAPTER24
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
OF ECONOMIES (BOP)
CONCEPT
An open economy, as mentioned previously, will have a large component of trade and that 
trade would bring in foreign currencies to home country either for making payments for 
imports or receiving foreign currencies for exports. In addition, in a previous section on 
Exports, it was mentioned that an adverse feature of the Indian Economy has been year 
after year imports were more than exports.
What does it mean? It basically implies that India has never been able to earn foreign 
currency through exports to that extent to meet payment obligations in foreign currency 
for  imports  of  goods.  That  is, the  first thing to  understand  about  open economies on 
their ability to ‘earn foreign currencies through exports to pay for the import needs of the 
economy i.e., the criticality of exports.
It is clearly known that India is an importer of crude petroleum and increased consumption 
of petro goods would require India to export sufficiently to cover the import required of 
crude petroleum. Exports have been extensively addressed in the previous section.
Open economies would have both domestic as well as foreign currencies and as trade 
increases with more of exports and imports, there has to be a tracking mechanism in the 
economy of the foreign currencies going out on account of imports and other factors and 
the foreign currencies coming into the country on account of exports and other such factors.
Uns is what known as the ‘balance of payments’ (BOP) of a country, which is a separate 
and independent ‘record of all transactions being done in the foreign currencies in the 
country: The BOP of country assumes great significance for open economies. In India, the 
responsibility of maintaining the BOP lies with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). RBI is not 
only the apex monetary authority, controller of liquidity but also has a larger role to play 
in open economies of maintaining the BOP. How is the record of transactions maintained?
BOP—KINDS OF ACCOUNTS
The balance of trade (BOT) or balance on merchandize goods: This account records all 
transaction of foreign currencies on account of export and import of ‘goods’ only. The 
BOT would be in surplus if inflows of foreign currencies in the economy through exports 
are more than outflow of foreign currencies on account of imports. Conversely, it would 
mean a deficit on the BOT. This is what has been referred earlier of a structural trade 256 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
deficit in India, of insufficiency of foreign currencies through exports of goods to meet the 
foreign currency required to pay for critical imports.
The second kind of account is the balance on invisibles (BOI). Just as there are imports 
and exports of goods, there are also imports and exports of services such as banking, 
shipping,  insurance,  software,  consultancy,  etc.  This  account  maintains  records  of 
transactions in foreign currencies resulting out of export and import of services.
What could be other types of transactions in foreign exchange other than for import 
and export of goods and services covered in balance of invisibles. These could be for the 
following:
(1)  Inward  and  Outward  Tourism—tourist  arriving  to  India  (inward)  would  require 
rupees  to  spend  for  which  they  would  like  to  exchange  their  respective  foreign 
currencies  into  rupees.  Similarly,  Indians  going  abroad  (outward)  would  require 
foreign currency.
(2)  Inward  and  Outward  Remittances—many  Indians  about  35  million  are  settled 
overseas in different countries also known as the ‘Indian diaspora’. Many of them 
send money to their family. As they are earning in foreign currency they would send 
the money in foreign currency (inward remittance) which would be exchanged in 
rupees in India and given to the beneficiary. Similarly, Foreign residents in India may 
also like to remit money overseas (outward remittance).
(3)  Inward  and  Outward  Education—there  is  an  increasing  trend of Indian students 
seeking higher education abroad (outward education). They would need to cover for 
their fees in foreign currency.
(4)  Similarly, foreign students wishing to study in India (inward education) would need 
Indian rupees to cover their expenses in India. Further, there may also be a need of 
foreign currency for overseas medical treatment.
In all the above transactions, there will thus be a ‘net effect’ which is either positive 
or negative depending on which transactions are more. For example, net tourism will be 
positive if foreign currencies being surrendered (by foreign tourist for rupees) is more than 
foreign currencies being demanded (by Indian tourists going abroad) and vice versa and 
similarly for remittances and education.
All  the  aforementioned  transactions  which  are  net  tourism,  net  remittances,  net 
education and for medical treatment are reflected in the balance of invisibles’ (BOI) of the 
BOP. Thus, BOI records transactions in foreign currencies relating to export and import 
of services, net tourism, remittances, education and medical treatment. This could also be 
either positive or negative depending on which is more.
Both the BOT as well as the BOI constitute the balance on current account of the BOP. 
Accordingly, the BOP may have a current account surplus (CAS) or a current account 
deficit (CAD) and CAS will result in the following:
With both BOT and BOI in surplus or positive.
It can also be possible with a deficit on BOT but with a surplus on BOI sufficiently 
large enough to wipe out the deficit on BOT.
On the other CAD will result if there is
Deficit on BOT and BOI.
Deficit on BOT and a surplus on BOI but not sufficient enough to wipe out the BOT.BALANCE OF PAYMENTS OF ECONOMIES (BOP) 257
It  appears  to  be  complicated  but  there  is  requirement  to  understand  these  concepts 
failing which problems of open economics and crises may be difficult to comprehend. An 
illustration of an open economy, say A is explained below:
Exports of goods  USD  100 million
Imports of goods  USD  250 million
BOI  USD  200 million
Economy  A  has  a  deficit  on  BOT  of  USD  150  million  but  a  CAS  of  USD 
50 million. If the economy had a BOIo fU  SD1 00 million itw ou ld havea CA  D of US D50  
million.As ur plus on  thecurr ent acco unt can  thushapp en both with asurp lus and  also with 
deficiton B OTdepen ding on theBOI. 
Inflows of foreign currencies (coming into the country) are more’ than the outflow of 
foreign currencies (going out of the country) in an economy. A CAD would imply the 
reverse i.e., outflows of foreign currencies are more than the inflows of foreign currencies 
in an economy.
How is the difference between outflows and inflow's met? This would take us into the 
third account of BOP maintained by the RBI which is a record of transactions other than’ 
those on the current account.
Transactions other than those on the current account is referred as capital account
transactions and would comprise of the following:
(1) Foreign Investment—this will be discussed separately later. However, this  represents
inflows of foreign currencies into the economy for investment purposes. 
(2) Deposits—many of the Indian diaspora settled abroad maintain deposits in foreign
currencies in India known as NRI
(3)  Borrowings—private  sector  can  borrow  in  the  international  currency  and  so  can 
the government bilaterally or from multilateral institutions such as the IMF, World 
Bank, etc.
(4)  External  Assistance  and  Grants—government  can  also  receive  assistance  and 
grants from other countries in foreign currencies. But this was relevant in closed 
economies.
All the above transactions are known as capital account transactions and get reflected 
in the capital account’ of the BOP. The balance on current account and capital account 
constitutes the BOP of the country. The BOP necessarily like a balance sheet has to balance, 
or no difference between assets and liabilities. Similarly in the case of BOP ‘inflows’ will 
have to be matched with outflows’ one way or the other. Thus BOP has to be zero. Thar 
is, any CAD would have to be met out of capital foreign currency inflows of either foreign 
investment or NRI deposits and if not there, our of borrowings by the government to 
meet the CAD.
However. BOP can also be zero under:
(1)  There is CAS. The excess inflows going to augment the foreign exchange reserves.
(2)  There is a CAD but sufficient capital inflows other than borrowings to wipe the deficit.
Thus, by looking at the BOP it is not possible to comment on the health of the economy 
on the trade front of whether, there is CAD or CAS. BOP is solely an account’ of inflows 
and outflows of foreign currencies and the manner in which inflows and outflows on the 
current account are matched. The true picture can, however, be seen from the current 
account of the BOP. As an open economy, the balances on current account of economies 
become extremely relevant.258 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Suppose an economy has CAD of USD 100 million. It does not have capital inflows. 
How does the government acquire foreign currencies to meet the deficit? Remember fiscal 
deficit, the government could print rupees to meet the deficit or borrow rupees from the 
market. Hie government can never be a defaulter in borrowings given its sovereign powers 
to print home currency.
In  the absence of capital inflows, the government would have to borrow from the 
international  market.  Any  borrowing  in  the  market  for  meeting  CAD  is  crisis  for  the 
economy  because  how  does  the  economy  pay  back  the  amount  borrowed?  It  would 
amount to placing economic sovereignty at stake, leading to economic sub-judication.
A high CAD has been a common denominator in all the crisis-ridden economies in the 
past and as a parameter closely monitored by all open economies. Both the CAD as well 
as fiscal deficit are known as the ‘twin deficits’ that is necessary evils and little to choose 
between, in terms of damaging impact on economies.
24.3 IS CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS (CAS) BETTER FOR OPEN 
ECONOMIES?
So it appears that open economies should preferably have a CAS or should not have CAD 
given their vulnerability to crisis-like situations. The concept of CAS is explained briefly.
CAS typically represents surplus of outflows over inflows and where this surplus is 
going? It represents ‘idle’ money as it reaches the RBI instead of the economy. It is idle 
because it has not been absorbed in the economy, which is possible in an over-invested 
economy  or  economics  with  little  investment  opportunities.  Any  further  investment  in 
such economies, would not increase growth but only fuel inflation. Such economies need 
to cool. A CAS is helpful for them. It could also be if the government interferes in their 
absorption through policy interventions.
So a CAS in China is understandable as it needs to slowdown to prevent build-up of 
inflationary pressures in the economy.
India is already running a high CAD, but then these are abnormal circumstances of 
shocks of global recession. It is also because of import of crude petroleum and in recent 
rimes a surge in import of gold. Despite the high levels of CAD it can be said to be 
manageable  given  the  surplus  on  the  capital  account.  However,  the  same  levels  can 
overnight become very disturbing and dangerous should the capital flows reverse, leaving 
no choice, other than borrowings to meet the deficit on the current account.
Rightfully, the RBI while maintaining the BOP keeps a close watch on the movements 
both on the current account as well as capital inflows. High CADs in relation to their 
GDP has been a common denominator for all the crises-ridden economies.
It is wrongly believed that openness has been responsible, rather it was the inability 
of thesee conomies t o seeth ewi dening CAD,plu nging theminto  thegorg eofcri sis .Itshou ld  
also bekeptin  mind  that‘itisnotC  A D pers ewhic h is the problem ,but theway C AD ism  eet,
wheth er irrever sible cap italflows,re versible flow'so rborrowin gs’.On ly  ifCADisbein g met
ou tofbo rro wing by ag ove rnm entcan itbesaid  to beacrisis oran u nsu stainableCA D .Aslo ng  
CADismetoutin flowso n th ecapitalacc ou nt,ot hert han borro wingsw hich is through f oreign  
investment,NRI deposits,i tcan besaid to bemanageable ,nota seriousc aus eofcon cern.Crisis 
on thecurren tacc ou ntisalso  know n a s‘BOPcr isis’.          
   CHAPTER25
TRADE REFORMS AND 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
MANAGEMENT ACT 
(FEMA) 1999
TRADE REFORMS
India had co embark a massive and series trade liberalization measures post 1991. It had 
to make ad eparture f rom th e rel atively protectionist tra de pol icies wh ich itadop ted post
inde pendence .Th ese ref orms w ere n ecessitated  as ar esponse  to the concerns of the 
globalization  and integration o fIndian economy with th ato fthe world economy .Main 
features of trader eformp oliciesw erea sfo llows:
•  Removal of Quantitative Restrictions on Imports
•  Reduction in Import Tariffs
•  Special Economic Zones (SEZ) Scheme
•  Convertibility of Rupee on Current Account
•  Sectoral Deregulation
•  Concessions and Exemptions
•  Promotion of Service Exports
•  Setting Up of Agricultural Export Zones
•  Export-Oriented Units (EOU) Scheme
•  Setting up of Trading Houses
•  Market Access Initiative
•  Devaluation of Rupee
•  Rationalization of Tariff structure
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REGULATION ACT (FERA)
Trade reforms as a part of opening of the Indian Economy have their genesis in repealing 
of  the  foreign  exchange  regulation  act  (FERA)  1973,  which  was  restrictive  and  had 
regulations  on  foreign  exchange  transactions.  As  an  inward-looking  economy,  with 
strong insulation from the rest of the World, FERA was to discourage foreign currency’ in 
domestic economy, and if required, be specific and thus need for regulations.
Under FERA, there were very limited transactions which were permitted and that too 
after seeking approval there were a large number of transactions in the negative list or that 
transactions could not be done. Cross-border inflows and outflows were also restricted, in 
line with the levels of insulation of the economy.260 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
All foreign-owned companies were designated as FERA companies. Similar to their 
counterparts  in  the  domestic  sector,  MRTP  companies  under  a  similar  act  known  as 
MRTP act. These companies in terms of their respective acts had to be closely monitored 
and regulated for fears of exploitative and unethical practices.
Foreign  exchange  regulation  act  also  vested  powers  to  try  out  criminal  cases  of 
violations in foreign exchange regulations. Thus, towards greater openness, and as a part of 
major trade sector reforms FERA was repealed and a new foreign exchange management 
act (FEMA) enacted in 1999, through which regulations paved way to management of 
foreign exchange transactions.
Foreign exchange management act was more liberal in allowing transactions without 
restrictions  and  dramatically  pruned  the  negative  list  of  foreign  exchange  transactions. 
The basic idea was to permit’ rather than the earlier regime to ‘prevent’. It also eased 
restrictions on cross-border capital flows especially foreign investment providing a clear 
signal of lowering of insulation.
In tandem, the then EXIM policies had already lowered peak-level customs duty to 
facilitate  greater  imports  into  the  country.  With  the  dismantling  of  both  the  MRTP 
as  well  as  the  FERA  acts,  nomenclature  of  FERA  companies,  MRTP  companies 
were  also  discontinued.  With  a  strong  focus  on  management  of  foreign  exchange, 
trying out of criminal offenses was entrusted to a separate newly created enforcement 
directorate  (ED).  Thus,  FEMA  essentially  covers  three  broad  areas  which  are  as 
follows:
(1)  Rupee convertibility.
(2)  Setting up of a separate ED for trying out criminal offenses in foreign exchange.
(3)  Borrowings by the corporate sector.
Like the reforms in the industrial sector, replacing of FERA with FEMA is seen as a
majoraspectoftra de refor mssigni fying relaxationson in flowsand a lso greateropen ness  
of the IndianEconom y.Itisnotonly re pl acin  g‘regula tions’with‘manag  ement’,  
but a paradigmshiftindieg ov ern ments outlooktowa rds  foreigncurre nc y.The    
other majorareasoftrade secto rre forms  arein thearea s of foreig ninv est me nt
policy  and  also  exchange  rate  determination,  which  are  discussed  in  the  subsequent 
sections.
25.3 RUPEE CONVERTIBILITY
What is the generic meaning of convertibility? Convertibility, as a concept, goes with open 
economies and little relevance in the era of closed economies. The meaning of convertibility 
is to treat foreign currency, no different from the home currency for transaction, investment 
and saving purposes whether in thed omestice conomy oro verseas.
Convertibility is linked to absence of restrictions from the government of conversion of 
one currency into another and also in its end use domestically or internationally. Or coming 
back to why mentioned in the beginning. If the government/RBI does not ask ‘why’ foreign 
currency is required or foreign currency, freely, available across the counter, like home curren­TRADE REFORMS AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANAGEMENT ACT (FEMA) 1 999 261
cy, is what is know as a convertible currcncy/economy. More specifically convertibility is also 
about the following:
•  Freedom to residents to maintain home currency or foreign currency denominated by 
bank accounts.
•  Freedom to residents to remit outside the country.
•  Freedom to residents to invest in the global stock markets.
•  Freedom to domestic companies to borrow funds either from the domestic or from the 
international markets.
•  Freedom  to  companies  to  issue  shares/bonds  in  overseas  markets  subject  to  their 
regulatory compliances.
•  Freedom to domestic companies for global operations and also to acquire companies 
overseas.
•  Freedom to do transactions in any currency.
•  Freedom to invest globally.
•  Freedom to exchange currencies like commodities across the counter.
Most of the larger economies such as US and Europe have convertible currencies, 
which can be freely exchanged with other currencies, without any restrictions and can also 
be used for transaction and other such purposes as mentioned above.
Why is convertibility important for open economies?
(1)  With increased openness, increased trade and capital flows, absence of convertibility 
is seen as a hindrance to smooth inflows and outflows, resulting in avoidable delays 
in conversion, besides increasing transaction costs of conversion.
(2)  A convertible currency is acceptable in a non-convertible economy (USD in India) 
but a non-convertible currency is not acceptable in a convertible economy (Rupees 
in the US).
(3)  It is seen from the global perspective as a growing stature of the home currency 
gaining global acceptability.
(4)  It reflects greater transparency in the foreign exchange transactions in the domestic
economy.
5 It is seen as the growing maturity and strong macro-economic fundamentals of an 
economy and their ability to withstand adverse global fallouts.
It is also believed as a way to attract foreign investment.
It is a reflection of the confidence of the government that convertibility will not 
result in outflows from the economy.
(8)  Economies with convertible currencies have greater levels of efficiency, provide 
depth to the financial sector and are seen as globally competitive.
(9)  Convertibility  allows  testing  of  strengths  of  economies  in  their  bid  to  global 
integration.
(10)  It is also about dispelling the ‘fear’ factor, the fear of‘what if from the minds of the 
government.
(11)  Most large open economies, as mentioned earlier, such as US and Europe have 
convertible currencies.262 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
What could be the possible fallouts of convertibility?
(1)  All  the  crisis-ridden  economies  in  the  past  had  complete  convertibility  and  that 
convertibility exposes economies and makes them vulnerable, especially in adverse 
global circumstances.
(2)  One of the biggest dangers of convertibility is known as the fear of infamous ‘Dutch 
disease’,  coined  during  1977  following  the  discovery  of  oil  in  The  Netherlands. 
There was a surge inflows resulting in currency appreciating adversely affecting their 
manufactured exports and slow down of the economy.
(3)  The  stance  of  the  monetary  policy  changes  to  managing  inflows  and  outflows, 
managing what isr eferred ast he‘i mpossibletri nity’of ope n capitalacc ount,exc hangerate 
and  independent mon etary policy.The centr al bank  can atbestm  anag e two b utnotall 
thre e. 
(4)  Large inflows can create issues of liquidity and result in inflationary pressures besides 
affecting the growth.
(5)  The fear factor mentioned above is the apprehension of flight of capital from the 
country, which can be very dc-stabilizing in nature for the economy.
(6)  It is a one-way journey offering no scope of experimenting or going back. Also having 
begun the journey it will also have to be completed. It cannot be abandoned mid­
way. This is because over a period of time, it will not be possible to prevent leakages 
despite having controls on capital flows.
What can be the basic preconditions to convertibility? It is difficult to lay down a set of 
defined preconditions to convertibility. It is qualitative in nature, differs from economies 
to economies and is also about the confidence levels of the government on its own people 
and the state of the economy.
However, based on the experience of other countries having convertible currencies and 
also of the crisis-ridden economies, some key fundamentals to convertibility are as follows:
(1)  Economies should be on sustained upward growth trajectory.
(2)  Exports should be showing signs of buoyancy and moving away from primary to 
manufactured goods.
(3)  Inflation levels should be ‘manageable’. Economies should have the confidence on 
their ability to be able to effectively manage inflation through appropriate policy tools.
(4)  Interest rates should be globally aligned i.e., the inflows and outflows should be 
interest rate ‘neutral’.
(5)  Current  account  deficit  should  be  supported  by  capital  inflows  or  high  current 
account deficit should not lead to external borrowings.
(6)  ‘Manageable levels’ of fiscal deficit. The government should be resolved at lowering 
the levels of fiscal deficit and should have initiated fiscal consolidation.
(7)  Economies should have the confidence of servicing the external debt through export 
earnings.
(8)  The financial sector especially banking should have strong balance sheets, mature, com­
petitive and have the depth to assess and mitigate risks. They should be following pruden­
tial lending, not overexposed and a balanced asset portfolio in terms of their risk appetite.TRADE REFORMS AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANAGEMENT ACT (FEMA) 1 999 263
(9)  Economies  should  have  initiated  economic  reforms,  greater  openness  towards 
-
competitive, efficient, market-determined and productive domestic economy.
What  is  the  status  of  convertibility  in  India?  India’s  effort  at  convertibility  has  been 
cautious, well-calibrated, well thought out and gradual, beginning since 1994. It is not 
necessary to map the journey or the chronological ordering but that there has no fallouts 
in the  journey so far.T hepr esentsta tusisth us ‘com pleteconve rtibility on thecurrent account’ 
in the ba lance  ofpayme nts  ofthe In dia .Bu t not c apita l ac count c onvertib ility  (CAC).
Convert ibility on thecurrentac countim pliesthat forexpor tand  impo rtofgo odsand servic es, 
transac tions in foreig n currencies areunrestricted and d o n othaveany restrictions e ither from
theRBIorf romth egove rnm ent.       
Restrictions on Current Account Transactions
With regard to other transactions on the current account they are also unrestricted except 
for the following which are restricted:
(1)  Outward  remittance  of  prize  money  earned  out  of  game  shows,  lottery,  betting, 
racing, etc., is not permitted.
(2)  For outward tourism, an Indian resident can freely take up to USD 10,000 per visa 
holder in a calendar year should more be required prior authorization of RBI would 
be required.
(3)  For education abroad and overseas medical treatment expenses up to USD 1,00,000 is 
unrestricted and beyond requires prior authorization from the RBI.
(4)  All foreign currency payments made to foreign artists in India, and that required 
for  cultural  tours  overseas  require  prior  authorization  of  Ministry  of  Finance, 
Government of India.
Apart from the above transactions, the remaining transactions in the current account are 
unrestricted. It needs to be understood and absence of convertibility does not imply that 
transactions cannot be done but such transactions require prior authorization from either 
the RBI or the government.
Capital Account Convertibility (CAC)
In  the  status  on  convertibility  it  was  mentioned  above  that  presently  India  does  not 
have CAC. CAC has been driven in India based on recommendations of various experts 
committee  from  time-to-time,  but  the  most  notable  has  been  the  Tarapore  Committee 
recommendations. The committee had given a road map of‘fuller’ convertibility which is 
easing of restrictions on the capital account but not complete removal of all restrictions on 
the capital account over a period of time. However, the committee has remained silent on 
the issue of‘full’ convertibility.
In  terms  of  the  recommendations  made,  the  government  has, however, gone ahead 
with the easing of restrictions on the capital account as under:
At present, all inflows in foreign currency, irrespective of the nature, are completely 
convertible. For example, ‘that there are no restrictions either by the government or RBI, 264 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
on any kind of inflows, or their reversal as outflows’. Then what kinds of outflows on the 
capital account arc restricted? Outflows arising out of conversion of rupees into foreign 
currency by Indian residents, Indian companies, Indian financial institutions for overseas 
transactions.
Even  here,  recently,  the  government  has  considerably  eased  restrictions  on  such 
transactions on the capital account which are as follows:
(1)  Indian residents can freely remit up to USD 2,00,000 in a financial year overseas 
without any restrictions, for any investment purpose. Except that it should not be 
remittance of prize money earned. However, in view of the recent rupee turbulence 
it has been brought down to USD 75,000.
(2)  Indian residents can open foreign currency accounts in India for foreign currency 
earned for services rendered overseas. Such accounts are known as foreign currency 
Indian residents FC(IR) accounts.
(3)  Indian  mutual  fund  managers  can  invest  up  to  USD  5  billion  in  global  stock 
markets.
(4)  There has also been considerable relaxation to Indian companies to borrow overseas 
which are discussed in the next section.
What do the above imply that even without having CAC, rupee is virtually convertible 
except that it is not ‘formal’ declaration. This means that the government today has a choice 
of going back and can choose to re-impose restrictions on these kinds of transactions at 
any time.
Should the government then press the accelerator and go for full convertibility?
(1)  At  present,  there  are  no  apparent  compulsions  for  the  government  to  announce 
complete convertibility, as the purpose of attracting foreign inflows is being served 
especially in the last two years and India’s stature globally is not affected even without 
complete convertibility.
(2)  Further, China has broken the myth of inflows linked to convertibility and that 
openness  not  possible  without  convertibility  or  that  convertibility  and  global 
competitiveness go together.
(3)  Chinese economy is the fastest growing and expanding economy of the world, with 
robust exports, sitting on a trade surplus and globally competitive.
(4)  China has seen sizeable inflows into their economies of over USD 500 billion in the 
last two decades and if Hong Kong is included it will go over USD 1 trillion, all 
without any convertibility.
(5)  Definitely  Chinese  experience  has  diluted  the  importance  and  relevance  of 
convertibility for open economies.
(6)  Even India despite not having CAC, particularly after 2007, there has been sizeable 
inflows including foreign direct investment as can be seen in the section on Foreign 
Investment discussed subsequently.
(7)  However, over a period of time with a more balanced global economy, from the 
present unbalanced, favouring Asian economies, convertibility would eventually beTRADE REFORMS AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANAGEMENT ACT (FEMA) 1999 265
seen as maturity, resilience of economies with strong macro-fundamentals allowing 
smooth integration within the global economy.
(8) Lack of convertibility also allows for leakages, conversion of good money into bad 
money, a hindrance to the increasing cross-border flows. As openness of economies 
increases it only raises transaction costs of conversion.
(9) India unlike China, fortunately has initiated the journey,  but even with no  apparent 
compulsions of completing the journey, at some time would have to complete  it 
as  the  controls  would  become  ineffective  or  outflows  finding way around the
controls.
(10) Full convertibility of the Indian rupee can be delayed, but is inevitable and the only 
issue is by when?
EXTERNAL COMMERCIAL BORROWINGS
A major aspect of FEMA and trade reforms is also the easing of restrictions on the private 
corporate  sector  to  borrow  from  the  international  market  especially  for  paying  for  its 
imports and saving on the transaction cost of converting rupees to foreign currency for 
import  of  goods.  This  is  known  as  external  commercial  borrowings  (ECBs)  which  is 
similar to domestic borrowing except that they are in foreign currency from the overseas 
market.
It also allows the corporate sector to take advantage of the interest rate differential 
between the domestic and international rates of interest. A key aspect of interest rates 
on  ECBs  is  that  they  are  linked  to  London  inter-bank  offer  rate  (LIBOR)  a  market- 
determined  rate  of  interest,  at  which  global  banks  lend  to  each  other  and  the  floor 
level  of  interest  and  bench  mark  for  global  interest  rates.  The  mark  up  over  LIBOR 
is  usually  in  ‘basis  points  (bps)’.  A  100  bps  mark  up  implies  1  per  cent  over  the 
LIBOR.
Who decides the mark up for ECBs? The mark up is in terms of the sovereign rating 
of countries first and then the companies given by the international rating agencies such 
as Moody’s, Standard & Poor and Fitch. Normally a company’s raring cannot be better 
than the sovereign rating and it is invariably the country’s rating which decides the mark 
up. These rating agencies arrive at ratings of economies based on well-defined objective 
parameters. The ratings is in a scale comprising of two broad categories one—as ‘investment’ 
grade, economy has good fundamentals and can be considered as investment grade with 
minimum to moderate risk and the other—‘speculative’ grade which is, economy can be 
considered for investment but that the risk is high.
The higher up on the scale implies less risk and thus a lower mark up and the lower 
down the scale there is high risk and mark up accordingly is much higher. At present, 
the rating of India by the three rating agencies is a low of one notch above the last in 
investment grade which is, India is considered ‘marginally as investment grade’. Why such 
a low rank by international-rating agencies?266 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(1)  First and foremost is because of the high fiscal deficit. The combined fiscal deficit of 
the center and states put together over 10 per cent. Such high levels are unsustainable 
in the long-run.
(2)  High levels of public debt (all liabilities of Central and State Governments) to GDP 
ratio of over 70 per cent.
(3)  Such high debts are trigger points of an internal crisis like it happened in Greece and 
Ireland.
(4)  Near absence of fiscal consolidation.
(5)  Slowing down of the reform process.
Even though the government has protested against the rating given to India, but these 
agencies  are  known  for  their  independent  and  unbiased  thinking.  The  most  important 
aspect is that these ratings have global acceptability and the basis for deciding the mark up 
for ECBs besides also influencing overseas investment decisions.
At present, RBI under FEMA has allowed companies to raise ECBs up to USD 750 
million under the automatic route which is not requiring approval of RBI. All ECBs under 
automatic route or also subject to maturity period stipulated by RBI and have end use’ 
restrictions i.e., the purpose of ECBs has to be declared and it is to be ensured that the 
proceeds are used only for the declared end use by the company.
There is also a restriction that the proceeds have to be parked overseas and will not be 
allowed to be converted into rupees for bringing it back into the domestic economy. There 
is presently an overall country level ceiling of USD 35 billion for ECBs. The only issue 
with ECBs is that only reputed companies can access the ECB route. The amount raised 
as ECBs arer eflected in thee xternald ebto fth e c ountry.
American Depository Receipts (ADRs) and Global Depository
Receipts (GDRs)
There is yer another route through which Indian corporate sector can raise foreign currency 
denominated funds which is through issuance of ADRs and GDRs. In the absencel of 
convertibility, Indian companies cannot access the global capital market by issuance of 
shares just as they can be in the domestic market. To enable companies to access global 
markets, companies can issue shares, but instead of selling in the overseas market directly 
can off-load the shares to an international depository.
This depository on the strength of underlying shares held by it in the capacity of a 
custodian, would issue depository receipts and sold, just like shares in the overseas market.
These receipts are akin to a share, have similar features but are not shares as it does not 
confer voting rights to the holder of these receipts. They can be listed and traded at the 
global stock markets just liket hes hares.S uch receiptis sued in theUS  isk no wn asAD Rsand  
   
elsewhereasGDRs.
Most of the reputed Indian companies are enjoying listing at the global stock markets 
through  the  ADR  route.  This  mechanism  also  allows  domestic  companies  to  test 
international markets for their inherent strengths, competitiveness and global acceptability.TRADE REFORMS AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANAGEMENT ACT (FEMA) 1 999 267
All ADRs and GDRs offering are not on the automatic route and require prior approval of 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India.
Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds (FCCBs)
Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds also known as foreign currency convertible notes 
(FCCNs)  are  quasi-debt  instruments  issued  by  Indian  companies  in  foreign  currency 
which may or may noth avea c oupon and principal p ayment o ption orth e op tion ofthe y be
con verted into sharesata pr e -determined rateatth e disc retion ofthei nve stor.
At present, FEMA allows issuance of FCCBs by Indian companies subject to amount 
and  minimum  maturity  stipulation  under  the  automatic  route.  Thus,  the  Indian  private 
corporate sector can access the international market either as ECBs or ADRs or FCCBs 
or a combination of all.
CHAPTER26
FOREIGN INVESTMENT 
IN INDIA
26.1 CHANGING NOTIONS
Foreign investment has been a key area of reforms over the last two decades. It was nor 
too  long  ago  when  foreign  investment  was  treated  with  mistrust  associated  with  the 
multinationals operating for self-interests with exploitative tendencies, a bitter fallout or 
the earlier colonial regime.
It  was  China,  a  highly  closed  economy  in  the  seventies,  changed  the  notion  of 
development by following liberal policies for attracting foreign investment as means to 
meet the investment needs and to accelerate growth of their economy.
They showed that for development purposes money matters and not the ‘colour’ of the 
money. Also that foreign investment is not a necessary evil, as widely believed, by many 
economies. The transformation of the Chinese Economy to its present look can largely be 
attributed to foreign investment in their country.
But what exactly is foreign investment? Foreign investment comprises of two components, 
one referred as foreign direct investment (FDI) and the other as investments by foreign 
institutional investors (FII) now referred as foreign portfolio investor (FPI). FDI represents 
overseas  equity  investment  projects  in  India  with  the  investment  objective  of  directly 
managing businesses. The equity investment can be in an existing company or as a new 
company for various projects in the country. The objective is to do commercial business in the 
country.
The extent of equity a foreign investor can bring in different projects is referred as 
‘sectoral  caps’  and  prescribed  by  government  through  its  various  ‘press  notes,  issued 
by  Department  of  Industrial  Policy  &  Promotion  (DIPP),  Ministry  of  Commerce  & 
Industry’. Some aspects of FDI should be kept in mind, one is that they come with a 
business orientation, with an explicit profit motive and they provide a unique blend of 
resources, technology, knowledge and professionalism and management techniques. Their 
interests  are  not  short-term  but  long-term.  A  misconception  of  FDI  is  repatriation  of 
profits or outflows from the country. As mentioned earlier, they operate with a commercial 
motive, but will not begin to earn profits immediately and it takes time to achieve break 
even by companies before they begin to earn profits. Even when they begin to earn profits 
repatriation, is noto ft he e ntirep rofitsbu ton ly acer tain percentage of pro fitsearn ed and that
cann otbele git imatecritic ismofFD I. 
Investment by FPls on the other hand, is predominantly in the stock markets with the 
purpose of solely trading in shares of companies, and also investment in corporate debt 
and government securities. Their objective is to book profits on investments made. Such 
investments are short-term and volatile and if millions of dollars can come in, they canFOREIGN INVESTMENT IN INDIA 269
also go out overnight. They stay in the markets as long as things are good and the first 
one to leave in periods of uncertainty. They are referred as ‘fair weather friends’. Such 
investments are also known as portfolio investment’.
FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT (FDI)
What changes have been taken place with regard to foreign investment in India? India’s 
attempt at opening up for foreign investment has been gradual and cautious step-by-step. 
First, foreign investment policy was selective and restricted to high-priority areas only. 
Then came the era of ‘hyphen’ products. Foreign companies were allowed to invest in 
India but only as a joint venture along with an Indian partner, such as Maruti-Suzuki, 
Akai-Bush, BPL-Sanyo, Tata-Yodogawa, etc.
Subsequently,  foreign  companies  could  use  their  brand  names  without  any  Indian 
attachments.  As  a  further  step,  the  ‘dividend  balancing’  requirement  of  repatriation  of 
profit by companies to be matched with exports of the company, in respect of twenty-two 
industries was dispensed. At present, almost the entire economy has been opened up for 
foreign investment, in most areas 100 per cent foreign participation is permitted to sectors 
such as petroleum sector, road building, power, drugs and pharmaceuticals, hotels and 
tourism, etc.
Besides, certain areas have sectoral caps such as insurance and foreign equity is restricted 
to 26 per cent. For banking, telecommunications and airport service provider it is not 
exceeding 49 per cent. The sectoral caps are increased by the government through its 
various ‘press notes’ depending on needs of the economy.
In certain areas such as gambling, betting, lottery business, atomic energy, agriculture 
and multiproduct-organized retailing, FDI is not permitted.
The  government  to  facilitate  foreign  investment  has  also  introduced  fast-track 
mechanism of the ‘automatic route’ subject to sectoral caps, for projects which do not 
require industrial license and not having existing joint venture in India. All investments by 
NRI/persons of Indian origin (PIO)/overseas corporate bodies (OCB) as also SEZ, EOU, 
EHTP and STPI are under the automatic route.
Government also set up the foreign investment implementation authority (FIIA), for 
inter-ministerial coordination and to ensure quick translation of the approvals given into 
the investment. It can be seen that almost the entire economy, except for the agricultural 
sector and select sectors, has been thrown open for foreign investment, indicating that the 
government is welcoming foreign investors in the domestic economy.
We have to be clear that the debate over foreign investment in terms of their demerits 
has been given a quite burial. The second is whether it is a matter of choice or compulsion. 
We have to face the fact that India has a distinct ‘investment deficit’ and there are ‘no 
options’ other than foreign investment to bridge this huge deficit.
It  has  been  discussed  previously  about  the  investment  in  infrastructure  alone  of  a 
staggering USD 1 trillion dollars over the next decade. Yet another thing not understood 
is that: ‘India needs foreign investment more than foreign investment needs India’. It is in 
this light the easing of restrictions on foreign investment has to be seen.
What has been the impact? Since the beginning of opening up for foreign investment 
in 1991, India has been able to attract around USD 500 billion.
Is it impressive? China on the other hand, during the same period has been able to 
attract  over  USD  1000  billion  or  over  USD  1  trillion. FDI  in India came in  driblets 
till 2007. The period 1991-2007 witnessed very poor levels of foreign investments. It, 270 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
however, has picked after 2008 wich USD 55 billion coming in just three years to again get 
reduced since 2013. Thus India, at least in the last few years, can be said to be attracting 
foreign investment but clearly not as much as the other economies are attracting. The 
global crisis since 2007 has come as a blessing in disguise with a lot of capital flows coming 
into emerging economies and India included even though not in a same magnitude.
Despite the considerable easing of restrictions why is India not a preferred destination 
for FDI? It has a large pool of English-speaking workforce, cheap labour, natural resources, 
a growing economy, second largest market and a government-favouring FDI. The answer 
lies in a number of factors which are as follows:
(1)  First and the foremost, a foreign investor draws a global comparison before taking 
a decision on the choice of destination and thus the government has to look from 
‘their perspective and not from ‘its own perspective. It has to see what are they 
looking for and then providing it to them.
(2)  There are a lot of areas where India has a comparative disadvantage over economies such 
as China, Korea and Brazil in infrastructure, stringent labour laws, still large dominance 
of public sector, relative imperfect market and so on.
(3)  It may also be mentioned that globally India is ranked very low in terms of the ‘ease 
of doing business’.
(4)  Even though there is single window clearance for all FDI, it is ‘ineffective’ as still 
multiple clearances are required at the central and also state governments level.
(5)  The earlier controversial Enron power project and the present controversy around 
POSCO and die Vedanta group serve as enough deterrents to FDI.
(6)  Even though policy has changed but the mind sets have not changed, it is still felt 
that India is doing them a favour rather than the other way around.
(7)  The state governments do not give due priority of the same degree as the central 
government leading to delays.
(8)  The labour market is inflexible with regulations around them making it difficult for 
foreign investors to comprehend and prefer to go to other destinations which have 
greater flexibility in labour laws.
(9)  Yet another factor has been the fact that the so-called reforms and the liberalization 
policies still lack transparency with explicit licensing replaced by implicit back door 
regulations in the economy.
(10)  Somehow the clear message of liberal FDI in India has not been publicized at the 
international level. Something as ‘India as an investment destination’.
It is precisely for the above reasons that economics like China and others are scoring above 
us. There is yet another important difference is the indifference of the NRI to invest in 
India. Most of the FDI in China comes from expatriates and those who were earlier of 
Chinese origin but now settled in various countries.
The  Chinese  people  though  settled  overseas  still  continue  to  have  their  roots  for 
investment matters in China, which is the missing link in India. Our NRIs, when comes 
to investment decisions rank other countries higher than India.
Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in Organized Retail
Foreign Direct Investment in organized retail is yet another area shrouded in controversy. 
What is organized retail? Let us define retail first, it is household requirement of the people 
comprising of food and grocery, clothing, convenience, consumer goods, etc. Secondly, 
organized  retailing  is  selling  of  these  household  commonly  used  goods  to  the  people 
directly, as branded products across counters in big stores.FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN INDIA 271
Organized retailing is virtually non-existent in India and dominance of the ‘mom-pop’ 
scores, kirana shops and neighbourhood shops. Unorganized retailing accounts for over 90 
per cent of retail business in India. The retail market in India is growing exponentially and 
is projected to reach over USD 350 billion by 2015. Can such a huge market be handled 
as ‘unorganized’ business efficiently?
What  is  the  present  status  of  FDI  in  retail  sector?  FDI  in  organized  retailing  is 
permissible in India through the following four routes:
(1)  FDI  in  retail  is  permitted  through  the  franchise  route  like  McDonalds  where  the 
foreign company gives a franchise to an Indian to sell on their behalf and use their 
brand name.
(2) Yet another way  retail isif the company is sourcing from India and manufacturing 
the product in India it can use the brand name such as Arrow, Benetton, etc.
(3)  Another route is the cash and carry’ concept, where the company can sell the product 
to a wholesaler in India who would then do the retailing like ‘Spencers’.
(4)  FDI is also permitted up to equity participation of 51 per cent but only for single 
products/brands.
(5)  Only recently government has permitted 51 per cent equity (shares) as FDI in multi 
brand retailing business, subject to a minimum investment of USD 100 million, 50 
per cent of which has to be in back-end activities. Such retail stores can only be set up 
in cities with population more than 10 lakhs and too after approval of the concerned 
state government. There is also a stipulation that 30 per cent sourcing should be done 
from small-scale industries.
So FDI in retail implies allowing the foreign companies like Wal-mart to set up the stores 
in India for selling multi-branded household goods to the people.
So what is wrong with Wal-mart setting up stores in India? It is widely believed that 
allowing FDI in organized retail would mean an end to the kirana shops, bring the curtains 
down on the ‘mom-pop’ stores. The unorganized sector in retail would go out of business, 
result  in  mass-scale  unemployment  threatening  the  livelihood  of  the  millions  who  are 
dependent on this business. It is also feared that such big stores will solely promote more 
consumerism  given  their  aggressive  marketing  strength  and  thus  affect  savings  in  the 
economy as a whole. Such foreign companies may acquire monopoly status in consumer- 
oriented goods resorting to consumer exploitation.
Is this contention correct? This can be dealt in another way. What can be the likely 
benefits of FDI in organized retail?
(1)  These foreign companies have the experience, knowledge of such businesses and 
would bring best practices to the country.
(2)  They would be able to bring the best in the world to the country and a much wider 
choice set.
(3)  Their motto, rightfully is, customer first. They would always work in the interest of 
customer in providing better quality products and hygienic food items.
(4)  Their  functioning  is  essentially  large  volumes  less  margins,  scientific  inventory 
management and minimal wastages which enable them to price goods cheaper than 
the market.
'  5)  The  present  unorganized  retailing  has  huge  wastages,  not  much  inventory 
management resulting in their higher prices.272 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(6)  Thus, these companies will bring better quality goods at very competitive prices, 
providing value for money.
(7)  These companies are very conscious of their precious brand name and reputation 
and will never compromise on the quality of goods or claims being made by them. 
If they are promoting goods as the cheapest in the country, then rest assured they 
have performed their homework well-enough to have made the claim.
(8)  They believe in building their own supply chains down the line which is highly 
employment intensive.
(9)  However, the real tangible benefits are likely to accrue to the agricultural sector 
such as newer technologies, improved productivity, building up of supply chains, 
warehousing, better quality and price to the farmers because of elimination of the 
middlemen.
(10)  It would also promote setting up of farmers, groups and cooperatives as facilitators 
between the farmers and organized retailer.
The  fear  of  end of kirana stores in the country because o f m  ulti-branded organized has  
few basic facts. First is, about the retail behaviour in India and the western countries which 
is quite different. In the west, people believe in monthly grocery shopping and are s een as a   
family outing. This is not so in India where daily consumables are bought on a daily basis.
Second, each of these stores require huge area to provide everything to the people and 
are usually located on the outskirts of a town to save on rentals as downtown rates may be 
expensive. They believei nk eepingco stsdo wntot he  min imumi.e.,t heir uniqu eselling point( 
USP) Itwill be diffic ult forthem tor eacho utt hecon sum ers inthesame wa yas akiran asto re. 
G ivenIn dianre tailbeh aviours  how manytimes willa person  goth eWa l­ martfor his pur chases
ofmi lk,v ege tablesand oth ersuch  dailycons umab lesev enift heyar echeapbutlo cated at afar- 
off destina tion ?        
The  kind  of  reach  to  households  which  the  kirana  shops  have  in  India  providing 
personalized services can never be matched by these foreign companies despite their best 
of efforts i.e., to say that the kirana shops should not fear the Wal-marts. Rather the 
other way around, of the Wal-marts fearing the kirana shops. This challenge has also 
been acknowledged by the chairman ofWal-mart, of India being a huge but different and 
difficult market to penetrate.
On the whole, there appears to be misplaced apprehensions on FDI in organized retail. 
It will bring distinct improvement in supply chain management, development of back end 
infrastructure, create employment, give revenue to the government. It will also provide 
                               
qualitygoodsataffordableprices.Overaperiodoftime,therewouldbeconsensusofthe broad-
                       
basedbenefitsoforganizedretailing.BesidestheaforesaiddebatearoundFDIinmulti-product
                 
organizedretailingtherearecertainotherissuesaroundFDI.
               
SectoralDistributionandDirectionofForeignDirectInvestment(FDI)
                           
The first of the nature of FDI coming into India which is service sector-oriented
                                   
with as much as 50 per cent of FDI has been the area of IT, computer software and
                       
telecommunication unlike China where FDI has come into the manufacturing hub. More
                     
broad-based benefits in terms of employment opportunities would come with increased
         
FDIinmanufacturingandnotservices.FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN INDIA 273
The other disconcerting aspect has been that the spread of FDI across different states has 
been highly skewed  concentration around Mumbai,  Delhi, Gujarat and southern  states. 
Over 65 per cent of FDI has gone in states which have only 40 per cent of geographical 
area and population. FDI has virtually been negligible in the BIMARU states comprising 
of Bihar, MP, Assam, Rajasthan and UP; north-east states and also the NCS (newly carved 
out states) consisting of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttaranchal.
Incidentally,  these  states  are  rich  in  minerals  and  natural  resources  but  have  still 
not  attracted  FDI.  It  appears  that  FDI  for  manufacturing  purposes,  locations  other 
than  India  are  preferred.  Thus,  even  though  our  efforts  at  liberal  foreign  investment 
policy,  there  are  still  structural  issues  as  outlined  above,  to  establish,  India  has  a 
preferred destination or as a ‘manufacturing hub’ attracting overseas investment in the 
country.
India  has  distinct  advantages  over  the  other  countries  but  they  will  have  to  be 
translated  as  opportunities  and  that  is  where  the  government’s  role  would  become 
critical. To sum up, having an ‘effective’ single window set up by involving the respective 
state government would cut down avoidable delays and help to fructify the investment 
and  well-orchestrated  publicity  at  the  international  level  should  be  helpful  in  this 
direction.
26.3 FOREIGN PORTFOLIO INVESTMENT (FPI)
This is the second component of foreign investment which is largely volatile in nature. 
As a part of liberalizing FPI inflows there has been an increase in their inflows but have 
been less volatile in their outflows. Investment by FPIs in the stock markets has been 
considerably eased with no restrictions on their inflows in the stock markets except for 
the maximum percent shares of  a company ,stipulated by the governmen twhich can be
purchased by FPIs.
Similarly, FPIs can also invest in corporate debt instruments and also Government of 
India securities subject to ceiling of investment by the FPI stipulated from time-to-time. 
The FPIs need to be registered with SEBI, before they can invest in the Indian stock 
markets.
Two issues about FPIs need co be mentioned, one that is of participatory notes (PN)’ 
which  allows  for  participation  of  unregistered  FPIs  by  subscribing  to  PNs  floated  by 
registered FPIs. Much of the increased FPI investments have been through PNs. One, the 
problem with this is that it exposes the Indian stock market to those institutions whose 
neither name nor nationality nor purpose of the investment is known.
However, SEBI has considerably relaxed conditions of registration allowing for a larger 
number of FPIs getting registered bringing down the number of PNs issued. The other 
issue is that of ‘round tripping’ which is capital going out of the country only to return 
from a different route to avoid incidence of tax on profits earned. It is widely believed 
that much of FPI investment comes through Mauritius to take advantage of the double 
taxation avoidance treaty (DTAT).274 THE INDIAN ECONOM
Even though, much deepening of the Indian stock markets and its emergence asa  m  ajo r
stock market isa ttributed to thes izeableFP Iinv estments.Ho wever,ass aid  previousthese 
                   
investments arehighly volatile and reversible in nature atvery shortnotice.In vicwofthe
                   
surgein capital flowsasFPIinvestment in emerging economies,many economies such as
                 
Braziland Chinahaveimposed atax on short-terminflowsknown asreturn ofd earlier‘tobin 
               
tax’,imposed 2-3 decadesearlierfordiscouraging short-termcapitalflowIndiahasnotyetany 
                     
such tax aspresentFPIinflows/outflowsareviewed ascomfortablenotdestabilizing in nature
                   
,butcould reconsidershould therebeasurgein inflowsorsudden outflowwhich can beseen 
       
asdestabilizing theeconomy in future.
26.4 FDI IN AGRICULTURE SECTOR
The foreign  direct investment  (FDI )in the agriculture  sector  rose to ₹ 611.28 crore till  
                     
December2017 ofthisfiscal.FDIin agriculturewas ₹515.9 crorein theentire2016-1'fiscal,
           
₹553.14 crorein 2015-16 fiscaland ₹365.31 crore2014-15 fiscal
                   
TheFDIhelps in Agricultural sector helps to create theemployment opportunities .and 
             
infrastructurein thesectorwhich helpsto makesectormodernisation anccommercialisation.
                 
SincetheAgricultural sectoremploysaround 59 percentofemployment and 17 percentofto 
                     
thetotalGDPto economy.Despitethis,theFDIgoesinto Food processing,Agricultural,and 
                 
allied sector less attractive ascompared  service sector.The government should give high 
           
priority  to the agriculture sector and Food processing  sector for the enhancement ofthe
               
productivity to addressthegrowing need offood security aswellasto work forthewelfareof
                       
the small and marginalized  farmers .To fulfil the saving investments gap,public private
               
partnership approach willbeusefulin agriculturesector.To overcometheshortcomingsofthe
               
foreign investments ,proper attention  should bepay fortheprotection  ofcustomers and 
             
marginalfarmersthrough strong regulatory framework.
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN FDI AND FPI
The difference between Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and Foreign Portfolio Investment 
(FPI) can be understood in the following ways.
•  While the investment made by the international investors to obtain substantial interest 
and control in the enterprise is termed as FDI, the investment made by such investors 
in the instruments like stocks, bonds, etc. is known as a FPI.
•  While FDI investors assume active role in the management of the company, the FPI 
investors play passive role in the company affairs.
•  While the level of control is relatively high through the FDI investment as the investors 
gain both ownership and management control, the level of such control is relatively 
less in FPI as the investors obtain only ownership right.
•  While the FDI investors will have substantial and long-term interests in the company 
to which they are investing, FPI investors may not have such type of long term interest.FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN INDIA 275
•  While FDI investors invest in financial and non-financial assets, the FPI investors 
invest in financial assets only.
•  While it is comparatively difficult for FDI investors to sell out the stake they have 
acquired through their investment, the FPI investors can sell their stake at their wish 
as they have invested in financial assets only.
•  While  the  repatriation  of  the  FDI  investment  is  cumbersome,  difficult  and  time 
consuming, the FPI investment even can have overnight repatriation.

CHAPTER27
MULTILATERAL FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank Group (WB) are multilateral 
financial institutions having their genesis in the Bretton Wood Conference during 1944. 
The IMF was set up, first for post-war reconstruction and for greater economic cooperation 
amongst the countries. Subsequently, its role changed to achieve exchange rate stability of 
different economies.
Its  role  since  1970  onwards  was  to  provide  loans  to  economies  battling  on  their 
respective balance of payments front arising out of the collapse of the fixed exchange rates 
system, oil shocks and also to those economies opening up as part of global integration but 
having structural problems on their trade front.
Availing loan facilities from the IMF requires membership, (presently 189 members) 
by buying a ‘quota’ usually in relation to the output of economies and their stature in the 
world. The quota in turn determines voting rights for various policy decisions including 
loans to be provided to the affected economies by the IMF. The quota is bought by paying 
25 per cent in any of the Widely Accepted Currency (WAC) comprising of the USD, 
Euro, Pound Sterling and Japanese Yen. The remaining 75 per cent can be bought in 
the home currency and maintained with the central bank of that country but cannot be 
withdrawn without authorization from the IMF.
All loan facilities are short-term, provide interim relief and are linked as a percentage to 
the quota, which carry commercial interest rate with varying repayment periods and strict 
conditionalities like reforms in the domestic sector for long-term structural adjustment. 
All the accounts of the IMF are maintained in a neutral accounting currency known as 
‘special drawing rights (SDR)’ also referred as paper gold’. SDRs can be converted into 
any WAC at predetermined rates by the IMF.
Special drawing right is not a currency but only an accounting unit of the IMF and 
the quota can also be purchased in SDRs. IMF besides lending for trade imbalances and 
currency-related  issues  of  economies  also  publishes  country  papers  for  use  by  various 
governments for qualitative improvements in policy-making.
They  are  also  playing  an  important  role  along  with  the  World  Bank  Group  for 
eradication  of  absolute  poverty  especially  in  Asian  and  African  countries  through  its 
programmes like poverty reduction growth fund (PRGF), which is the only concessional MULTILATERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 277
assistance programme of the IMF repayable over ten years. IMF has been criticized for 
the large dominance of the US and its interest at the IMF is driven by a ‘Washington 
Consensus, being the largest quota holder.
IMF Resources
Most resources for IMF loans are provided by member countries, primarily through their 
payment of quotas.
•  Quotas: Quota subscriptions are a central component of the IMF’s financial resources. 
Each member country of the IMF is assigned a quota, based broadly on its relative 
position in the world economy.
•  Special Drawing Rights (SDR): The SDR is an international reserve asset, created by 
the IMF in 1969 to supplement its member countries’ official reserves.
•  Gold: Gold remains an important asset in the reserve holdings of several countries, 
and the IMF is still one of the worlds largest official holders of gold.
Recent Trends at the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
With  the  rebalancing  amongst  the  global economies,  emergence  of  BRICS economies, 
with their increasing contribution to the world output, a need was also felt to realign 
the quotas of the IMF by giving them larger share, commensurate with their growing 
international  stature  and  contribution  to  the  global  output.  BRIC  economies  have  thus 
been allocated 6 per cent additional quotas, with India’s share in voting rights increasing 
from 2.3 to 2.6 per cent, making it the eighth highest quota holder and voting rights from 
the earlier eleventh highest quota holder.
In terms of quota and voting rights, India ranks behind US, Japan, China, Germany, 
France, UK and Italy but ranks ahead of Russia and Brazil, amongst the top ten quota 
holders at the IMF. The rebalancing has doubled the total quota to SDR 477 billion or 
USD 756 billion.
Post-global crisis, IMF is likely to have a large role in revival but more importantly, 
functions  as  a  true  multilateral  financial  institution  providing  greater  global  financial 
stability from its present role of currency management. Since, its coming into existence, 
for the first time IMF has also opened a different window, new arrangement to borrow 
(NAB), for crisis ridden economies in the euro zone. This functionality would require 
greater  inter-government  monetary  co-operation,  greater  transparency  in  functioning  of 
monetary authorities and the IMF would have to take the lead role.
IMF REFORMS
IMF  Launches  New  SDR  Basket  Including  Chinese  Renminbi,  Determines  New 
Currency Amounts
•  Chinese  renminbi (RMB)  to  be  included in  SDR  basket  as fifth currency starting 
October 1,2016
•  Ms. Lagarde says SDR basket expansion reflects the ongoing evolution of the global 
economy and is a significant change for the IMF278 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Today,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  announced  the  launch  of  the  new 
Special Drawing Right (SDR) valuation basket including the Chinese renminbi (RMB), 
and the new currency amounts that will determine the value of the SDR during the new 
valuation period.
As approved by the Executive Board of the IMF on November 30, 2015, effective 
October  1,  2016,  the  RMB  is  determined  to  be  a  freely  usable  currency  and  will  be 
included in the SDR basket as a fifth currency, along with the  U.S.  dollar,  the  euro, 
Japanese yen, and tthe  British pound. The Board also decided att hatt imeth atth ewe ightsof 
ea ch currency would be41. 73 percent for the U.S .dolla r,30.9 3 percent forth eE uro, 10.92  
percentforthe Chin ese yuan,8.3 3 perc entfortheJap anes eye n,and 8.0 9 per centforthePound  
ster ling .
To  mark  the  launch  of  the  new  SDR  basket,  Ms.  Christine  Lagarde,  Managing 
Director  of  the  IMF,  stated:  “The  expansion  of  the  SDR  basket  is  an  important  and 
                     
historicmilestone fortheSDR,the Fund,Chinaand theinternational monetary system.Itisa
                                   
significant changefortheFund,becauseitisthefirsttimesincetheadoption oftheeuro thata
       
currency isadded to thebasket.
                   
In addition, the Board also decided today that effective October 1, 2016, the value of
                         
theSDRwillbethesumofthevaluesofthefollowing amountsofeach currency:
U.S. dollar 0.58252
Euro 0.38671
Chinese yuan 1.0174
Japanese yen 11.900
Pound sterling 0.085946
These currency amounts are calculated such that the value of the SDR in U.S. dollar 
terms is the same under the new basket as the value of the SDR prevailing today, and that, 
at the average exchange rates for the three-month period ending today (July 1 through 
September 30, 2016), the share of each currency in the value of the SDR corresponds to 
the weight approved by the IMF Executive Board on November 30, 201 5.
India gets more voting rights as IMF implements quota reforms
India's share has now increased to 2.75% from 2.44%, making it the eighth-largest shareholder 
in the Fund
Voting rights of emerging-market economies such as India and China have increased 
at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which has finally notified governance quota 
reforms adopted in 2010.T here formsw erehe ld up asthe  US Con gresswas reluc tantto rat ify 
thepropos al,fearing  adecline in isho ld ove rtheinstit ution  .Itapprove d  themovelast month  
with  asetofcondit ions .In dia’sshare atIMFh asnow  in creas ed t o 2.7 5%from2.44%,mak ing it 
theeigh th-largests hare holderin them ultilateralag ency,cl imbing three notches.   
The ratification of the 2010 reforms also clears the way for the institution to begin the
next ro und of review of its quotas to d iscuss the size and com pos ition of IMF resources 
and t hedistribu tion of quo tas haresa mong theF und’ sme mbership.      
           MULTILATERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 279
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and India
India has been major  borrower  of  the  IMF  before  the  reforms  were  initiated.  The 
borrowings had been from various facilities of the IMF. However, all the loans taken by 
India have not only been ‘repaid but prepaid’ to the IMF and our present outstanding is 
nil. The IMF also has a financial transaction plan (FTP) which is a plan to help the BOP of 
impoverished low income countries and only forty-seven strong economies are permitted 
to lend to the IMF for funding this plan.
India has also been admitted as a lender to the IMF for this plan since 2002. The 
amount contributed towards the plan is taken as a part of foreign exchange reserves of the 
country. So far, the contribution made by India to the FTP is USD 205 million.
Probably  India  would  be  the  only  country  in  the  world  to  have  become  a  lender 
(creditor) to the IMF, from being a borrower (debtor) just two decades ago. It is also an 
acknowledgement by the IMF of the strong fundamentals, maturity and growing stature 
of India post-reforms. With the increased quota and voting rights India will now find a 
greater, say, in various policy decisions at the IMF.
27.2 THE WORLD BANK GROUP
The World Bank Group also set up first, for rebuilding of economies post-World War II. 
Gradually,  the  emphasis  was  shifted  to  development  oriented  for  developing  countries 
and addressing issues of growing poverty' and poor countries in Asia and Africa. The WB 
provides financial and technical assistance to developing countries through multiple sister 
institutions playing  a complementary  role, for eradication of poverty, education, public 
health,  public  administration,  agriculture,  addressing  environmental  issues  and  funding 
projects which have predominant socio-welfare considerations covering schools, hospitals, 
dams, etc.
These projects are not World Bank-driven but are of the governments with World Bank 
only providing financial assistance to them and thus does not come with conditionalities 
except that the projects for which assistance has been provided is completed on schedule. 
Their funding not only covers central but also state governments, NGOs and other such 
institutions ,domestic as well aso verseas ,e ngaged in development -related work in the  
country. Thef inancialas sistance,unli ketheIM  F,i snotc omm  erc ialborrowing ,butconcessi onal 
,repayableov erlong tim eper iods.  
As  mentioned  previously,  World  Bank  comprises  of  complementary  institutions 
of  International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD)  the  International 
Development  Agency  (IDA),  International  Finance  Corporation  (IFC),  Multilateral 
Investment  Guarantee  Agreement  (MIGA)  and  International  Center  for  Settlement  of 
Investment Disputes (ICSID). The IBRD is more focused on reducing poverty in middle 
income credit worthy relatively poor countries through income generation activities and 
capacity building measures.
The IDA looks at the poorest seventy-nine economies including thirty-five countries of 
Africa, with per capita gross national income of less than USD 1165. Assistance provided 
is for infrastructure, public health and social sectors. Assistance provided is interest-free 
and have repayment periods of 35-40 years.280 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
IFC  provides  technical  and financial  assistance  to medium  and small  enterprises  in 
developing  countries  and  also  to  promote  entrepreneurship  especially  in  developing 
countries.  MIGA  provides  guarantees  of  political  risks’  to  overseas  investments,  while  
ICSIDr esolvesi nvestmentd isputeso fm emberc ountries.
The m  ajor r ole o f t he W  B h as b een centred around eradication of a bsolute p overty in 
African and Asian countries a nd also making poverty a g lobal i ssue a nd not r estricted to 
one o r g roup of c ountries. I t h as a lso given its o wn definition of p overty of t hose l iving 
belowU SD1  perd ay.
Besides,  it  also  prepares  country  level  papers  on  developing  countries  outlining 
developmental  requirements  of  developing  countries  and  eradication  of  poverty  in  a  
sustained  manner.  It  also  provides  insights  to  economies  for  inclusive  and  sustainable  
growth by providing assistancet o theg overnmentsa nd communities.
Hie W  B h as a lready committed USD 1 4 billion assistance t o India d uring 2009-2012.  
Recently RBI  would subscribe  to special  private  placement  of  bonds  issued by WB  to 
the  extent  of  USD  4.3 billion,  which will  make  India  eligible  for  higher  concessional  
borrowings  from  WB.  It  will  also  provide  a  stable  and  long-term  source  for  meeting 
current  account  deficit.  The  WB  has  set  up  the  catastrophe  risk  deferred  draw  down 
option (CRDD)  with a  corpus  of  USD  500 million for  providing assistance  to middle  
incomee conomiesa ffected by naturald isasters.
Playing  its  role  post-global  crisis,  it  has  established  vulnerability  financing  facility 
(VFF)w ithin theID A,to p rovidefastt rack  financialassista nceand als o arapid soc ialresponse  
fund (RSR F)formeeting  em ergentsocialneeds oflow incom eec onom  ies.Th e‘group’isa lso  
committe d  to fund stabilizing ofexisting infrastruct ureand ensuredelivery  ofpriority  projects
amo ngstdeveloping m emberco untries.The‘bank’als o undertake scon tinuous reviewofpublic  
expenditure and deb tm anagem ent forecon omies use ful forpolicy -ma kers ofthe respecti ve  
economies.        
ASIAND EVELOPMENTB ANK( ADB)
The A  sian Development B  ank (ADB) i s a  m  ultilateral d evelopment b ank with sixty-seven 
members a nd with the U  S a nd Japan as t he l argest s hareholders. H  owever, t he c haracter i s  
Asian in naturef ocused on regionalc ooperation amongstA sian and Pacificr egions.
The o bjective o f t he A  DB i s e radication of p overty in the A  sian countries, s ustainable  
economic  growth,  inclusive  social  development,  environment  sustainability,  information 
dissemination  and  greater  regional  integration.  It  provides  assistance,  co-financing  and 
technical a ssistance t o member c ountries. I t n ot o nly partners t he c entral g overnments o f  
economiesb uta lso privates ectora sw ella sN GOse ngaged in poverty alleviation.
All  the  three  multilateral  financial  institutions  comprising of  the  IMF,  the  WB  and 
the A  DB h ave p layed a p ivotal r ole f or d eveloping countries a nd at l east, e stablished that  
indeed poverty is  a  global  issue  and the  biggest  curse  of  mankind not  confined to few  
countries.
It  is  too large  an issue,  in magnitude  and wide  ranging in impact,  incapable  to be  
addressed  by  individual  countries,  requiring  global  interventions,  both  in  terms  of  
resourcesa sw ella si ntensified effortsa tt heirs uccessfule radication.MULTILATERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 281
Their role will be further redefined post-global crisis, in creating an oversight mechanism, 
not regulatory and also fostering greater economic cooperation amongst countries.
It can be said that these institutions, in future, will play a much larger role than in the 
past and go beyond the ‘Washington Consensus’ to emerge truly as multilateral institution 
not visible earlier.
• ADB Headquarter - Manilla, Philippines
27.4 NEW DEVELOPMENT BANK
At the fourth BRICS Summit in New Delhi (2012), the leaders of Brazil, Russia, India, 
China and South Africa considered the possibility of setting up a new Development Bank 
to mobilize resources for infrastructure and sustainable development projects in BRICS 
and other emerging economies, as well as in developing countries. They directed Finance 
Ministers to examine the feasibility and viability of this initiative, to set up a joint working 
group for further study, and to report back by the next Summit in 2013.
Following the report from the Finance Ministers at the fifth BRICS summit in Durban 
(2013), the leaders agreed on the feasibility of establishing the New Development Bank 
and made the decision to do so. It was also agreed that the initial contribution to the Bank 
should be substantial and sufficient for it to be effective in financing infrastructure. 
• NDB Headquarters - Shanghai, China
During the sixth BRICS Summit in Fortaleza (2014), the leaders signed the Agreement 
establishing the New Development Bank (NDB).
In  the  Fortaleza  Declaration,  the  leaders  stressed  that  the  NDB  will  strengthen 
cooperation among BRICS and will supplement the efforts of multilateral and regional 
financial institutions for global development, thus contributing to collective commitments 
for achieving the goal of strong, sustainable and balanced growth.
The Bank will also provide technical assistance for projects to be supported by the 
NDB and engage in information, cultural and personnel exchanges with the purpose of 
contributing to the achievement of environmental and social sustainability.
The main objectives of NDB operations are:
Fostering development of member countries
Supporting economic growth
Promoting competitiveness and facilitating job creation
Building a knowledge sharing platform among developing countries
To fulfill its purpose, the Bank will support public or private projects through loans, 
guarantees, equity participation and other financial instruments.
As  per  Fortaleza  Declaration,  the  Bank  shall  have  an  initial  authorized  capital  of 
US$ 100 billion. The initial subscribed capital shall be USS 50 billion, equally shared 
among founding members. The first chair of the Board of Governors shall be from Russia. 
The first chair of the Board of Directors shall be from Brazil. The first President of the 
Bank shall be from India. The headquarters of the Bank shall be located in Shanghai. 
The New Development Bank Africa Regional Center shall be established in South Africa 
concurrently with the headquarters.282 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The inaugural meeting of the Board of Governors of the NOB was chaired by Russia 
and held on the eve of the Ufa Summit on 7 July 2015, when the Bank formally came into 
existence as a legal entity. During the meeting, the appointment of the President, Mr. K.V. 
Kamath, as well as four Vice Presidents and the Board of Directors took place.
At the signing of the Headquarters Agreement with the government of  the  Peoples 
Republic of China and the  Memorandum of Understanding  with the Shanghai Municipal 
Peoples Government on T7F ebruary 2016,t heN DBb ecamefu lly operational.
In  2016,  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Bank  approved  loans  involving  financial 
assistance of over USD 1.5 bln for projects in the areas of green and renewable energy, and 
transportation.
27.5. ASIAN INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT BANK (AIIB)
Asian  Infrastructure  Investment  Bank  (AIIB)  is  multilateral  development  bank  initiated 
by China with a purpose to provide finances to infrastructure development and regional 
connectivity projects in Asia-Pacific region. It is seen as Asia’s response to West-dominated 
Asian  Development  Bank  (ADB)  and  World  Bank  (WB).  The  Bank  is  headquartered 
at  Beijing  and  officially  started  its  operation  from  2016.  The  Bank  has  currently  57 
signatories and India is a founding member and is expected to have the second-largest 
shareholding after China.

CHAPTER28
EXTERNAL DEBT OF INDIA
EXTERNAL DEBT
The external debt comprises of all foreign currency denominated debt owed by the central 
and state governments, Indian companies and the Indian residents. As economies follow 
open policies, external debt becomes an important parameter to track down given their 
sensitivity and ability to service them, as in the absence of their servicing, would imply 
more foreign currency borrowings for servicing the debt.
As per the standard practice, India’s external debt data are disseminated on a quarterly 
basis with a lag of one quarter. Statistics for the first two quarters of the calendar year 
(ending March and June) are compiled and released by the Reserve Bank of India, while 
the data for the last two quarters (ending September and December) are compiled and 
released by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India. In addition, the Government 
of  India  brings  out  an  annual  Status  Report  on  External  Debt  that  contains  detailed 
analysis of external debt position of the country.
At end-March 2018, India’s external debt witnessed an increase of 12.4 per cent over its 
level at end-March 2017 and placed at USS 529.7 billion. The increase is due to primarily 
on account of an increase in commercial borrowings, short-term debt and non-resident 
Indian (NRI) deposits. The increase in the magnitude of external debt was partly due to 
valuation loss resulting from the depreciation of the US dollar against major currencies. 
The external debt to GDP ratio stood at 20.5 per cent at end-March 2018, higher than its 
level of 20.0 per cent at end-March 2017.
It is not the quantum of borrowings which is important but how they are being utilized 
or are they generating sufficient returns to pay the interest and earning sufficient to repay 
the principal. This is what is meant by ‘debt servicing’. As long as debt is ‘serviceable’ any 
amount of debt is ‘sustainable’.
How do we measure external debt serviceability? This is measured through foreign 
currency received not as debt but through inflows on the ‘balance in current account’ of 
BOP. That is, through exports of goods and services and also other inflows such as inward 
remittances and inward tourism or inflows which are not debt creating or reversible in 
nature.
This is seen in relation to the debt liability in a year. Whatever the debt component, 
some amount as interest and also part payment of the principal would have to be paid284 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
every year. Suppose inflows on the current account are USD 100 million and outflows on 
account of interest liability is USD 20 million and if the loan is repayable in five years it 
will implyU  SD2 0m illionadd edtoth ei nter estthent he de btto servic er atio(DS R)is4 0perce nt 
.    
28.2 INDIA'S EXTERNAL DEBT HIGHLIGHTS
As per the standard practice, India’s external debt statistics are released with a lag of one 
quarter.  The  major  developments relating to India’s external debt as at end-September 
2018 are presented below.
Highlights
At end-September 2018, India’s external debt witnessed a decline of 3.6 per cent over 
its level at end-March 2018, on account of a decrease in commercial borrowings and 
non-resident Indian (NRI) deposits. The decrease in the magnitude of external debt was 
primarily due to valuation gains resulting from the appreciation of the US dollar against 
the Indian rupee and major currencies. The external debt to GDP ratio stood at 20.8 per 
cent at end-September 2018, higher than its level of 20.5 per cent at end-March 2018. 
(The ratio is based on external debt and GDP valued in rupee terms.)
Major  highlights  pertaining  to  India’s  external  debt  at  end-September  2018  are 
presented below:
•  At  end-September  2018,  India’s  external  debt  was  placed  at  USS  510.4  billion, 
recording a decrease of USS 19.3 billion over its level at end-March 2018 .
•  Valuation gains due to the appreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis the Indian rupee 
and major currencies (viz., SDR, yen, euro, and pound sterling) were placed at USS 
25.4 billion. Excluding the valuation effect, the increase in external debt would have 
been USS 6.1 billion instead of a decrease of USS 19.3 billion at end- September 
2018 over end-March 2018.
•  Commercial borrowings continued to be the largest component of external debt with 
a share of 37.1 per cent, followed by NRI deposits (23.9 per cent) and short- term 
trade credit (19.9 per cent).
•  At end-September 2018, long-term debt (with original maturity of above one year) 
was placed at USS 406.1 billion, recording a decline of USS 21.4 billion over its level 
at end-March 2018.
•  The  share  of  long-term  debt  (original  maturity)  in  total  external  debt  at  end- 
September 2018 was 79.6 per cent, lower than its level of 80.7 per cent at end- 
March 2018.
•  The share of short-term debt (with original maturity of up to one year) in total 
external debt increased to 20.4 per cent at end-September 2018 from 19.3 per cent 
at end-March 2018. The ratio of short-term debt (original maturity) to foreignEXTERNAL DEBT OF INDIA 285
exchange reserves increased to 26.1 per cent at end-September 2018 (24.1 per cent at 
end-March 2018).
•  Short-term debt on a residual maturity basis (i.e., debt obligations that include 
long-term debt by original maturity falling due over the next twelve months and short­
term debt by original maturity) constituted 43.8 per cent of total external debt at 
end-September 2018 (42.0 per cent at end-March 2018) and stood at 55.8 per cent 
of foreign exchange reserves (52.3 per cent at end-March 2018) (Table 2).
•  US dollar denominated debt continued to be the largest component of India’s external 
debt with a share of 49.7 per cent at end-September 2018, followed by the Indian 
rupee (36.1 per cent), SDR (5.3 per cent), yen (4.7 per cent) and euro (3.2 per cent).
•  The borrower-wise classification shows that the outstanding debt of both government 
and non-governmcnt sectors decreased at end-September 2018 (Table 3).
•  Debt service payments declined to 6.5 per cent of current receipts at end- September 
2018 as compared with 7.5 per cent at end-March 2018 (Table 4) - reflecting lower 
repayments of external commercial borrowings.
Conclusion
India’s external debt has remained within manageable limits as indicated by the external 
debt  indicators,  and  the  country  is  not  among  the  world’s  top  debtors  .  The  prudent 
external debt management policy of the government has helped contain the rise in external 
debt and maintaining a comfortable external debt debt position.
International comparison based on World Bank’s ‘International Debt Statistics 2017’ 
indicates that India continues to be among the less vulnerable nations and India’s main 
external debt indicators compare well with other indebted developing countries. India’s 
key  debt indicators,  especially external debt to GNI, debt service ratio and short-term 
debt to total external debt continue to be comfortable indicating that our external debt is 
within manageable limits. Among developing countries, while China has the highest debt 
stock and the highest share of short term external debt to total external debt, its key debt 
indicators like total external debt to GNI, debt service ratio and foreign exchange cover for 
external debt are more favourable than the other developing countries.
Public Debt of India
While India can draw comfort levels in terms of external debt, India also has a deeper 
internal problem of the high levels of rupee denominated debt comprising of government 
borrowings,  petro  oil  bonds,  etc.  This  taken  together  with  external  debt  is  known  as 
‘public  debt’.  Public  debt  to  GDP  ratio  has  continuously  increased  reaching  almost 
70 per cent.
A striking difference in the overall public debt of India in relation to other economies 
having similar magnitude of public debt is the fact that in India internal debt accounts 286 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
for 90 per cent of public debt while external debt is only 10 per cent. In other similar 
economies, the component of external debt was of much higher levels making them more 
susceptible to crisis than India.
Though  high  internal  debt  is  preferable  to  high  external  debt  but  not  without  its 
implications on domestic liquidity, inflation ultimately threatening long-term sustainability 
of growth. The government has made conscious efforts at fiscal consolidation but the crisis 
has taken its own toll in terms of fiscal concessions, increased levels of deficit to prevent 
the slowdown of growth. This may be understandable but the bigger challenge for the 
government would be to balance investment needs to increase growth rates and at the 
same time to keep deficits under check. This is easier said than done.

CHAPTER29
EXCHANGE RATE
DETERMINATION
EXCHANGE RATE
Exchange rates can be defined as the rate at which home currency is exchanged for a 
foreign currency or how much of home currency for a foreign currency or how much is a 
foreign currency worth or equivalent to a home currency. Why is one currency exchanged 
differently with another? It is about the demand and supply of a currency arising out of 
relative differentials in income levels, share in world trade, differences in purchasing power 
and relative differences in cost of production, or it could be even the central bank of the 
home country deciding on the worth of foreign currency in the home country.
Exchange rates become important for economies pursuing open policies as it increases 
the intermingling of foreign currencies with home currency necessitating their conversion 
for use in the domestic economy or the other way around, which is conversion of domestic 
to foreign currency for example, in meeting import requirements or overseas investment.
As  long  as  economies  remain  closed, there is  little relevance  for  exchange rate  as 
there is little interface with the rest of the world, as an inward looking economy with 
predominance of the home currency and relatively lesser need for foreign currency except 
for the need to cover essential imports.
Determination of Exchange Rates
It may be mentioned that in certain economies, there is no necessity to exchange foreign 
currencies as there is little role for the home currency and foreign currency circulates 
‘parallel and predominantly’ for all transaction-related purposes. Such economies are also 
known as ‘dollarized economies’. They are relatively very small economies, dependent on 
the US and also referred as the backyard of US. Examples are such as Panama, El Salvador, 
Ecuador, etc.
For other economies, exchange rate determination is either as pegged/fixed exchange 
rates or market-determined exchange rates. Pegged or fixed exchange rates are determined 
as a direct intervention of the central bank in deciding on the exchange rates. There are 
certain variants to such interventions like:
(1) Currency Board—The central bank of a country pegs the home currency to a 
stronger currency on a 1:1 basis or on a different ratio, as pegged exchange rate.288 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
That  is,  home  currency  in  circulation  would  depend  on  the  available,  inflow  of 
foreign currency. This is also referred to as the currency board’ system, advocated for 
economies experiencing uncontrollable inflation of very high levels. It is believed to 
impose strict monetary discipline and takes away monetary independence. Common 
examples of currency board system are Argentina, Hong Kong, etc.
(2)  Crawling/Pegged  Exchange  Rates—This  is  similar  to  fixed  exchange  rate  but 
with the central bank of that country having the flexibility of letting the exchange 
rate  to  float  in  a  small  band  with  a  ceiling  and  a  floor’.  Examples  are  China, 
Russia, etc.
Market-determined exchange rates are as follows:
(1) Full Float—The exchange rate in such economies is market-determined by the forces 
of demand and supply of foreign currency in the home country with no role of the 
central bank in exchange rate determination. Most economies such as the US, EU arc
full float economies.
(2) ‘Managed’ Exchange Rate—This is of  recent  origin  especially  by  countries  like 
India where even though the exchange  rate is market-determined, there is active
indirect intervention by the central bank,  to bring the exchange rate closer to its own
perception, but without actually directly  tinkering with the exchange rate as under
fixed exchange rate system.
This is referred as ‘dirty floating’, which is interference of the central bank in free markets 
to influence exchange rates. However, in India, given its impact on the domestic economy, 
it is known as ‘managed’ market-determined exchange rate.
Which can be said to be the best way of determination of exchange rates? It is difficult 
to say as each economy has different sets of challenges, their own internal priorities and a 
lot also depends on how it affects the domestic economy.
However, as economies pursue greater openness, larger role for capital inflows and 
outflows and in the long-term, they would be better off, in moving to a market-determined 
exchange rate which allows for testing of strength of the home currency in relation to a 
foreign currency and movement in exchange rates can be useful for policy-makers. Just as 
a thermometer for the foreign exchange market.
However, more importantly, market-determined exchange rates are seen as a maturity 
of  economics  with  strong  macro-economic  fundamentals,  their  relative  ability  to  be 
globally competitive. Large size economies such as the US, EU, UK and Japan with the 
sizeable global trade can be said to have hard currencies first, in respect of the volumes 
of trade. Secondly, their exchange rates are market-determined and third, having ‘widest 
global acceptability’ for various kinds of transactions.
Soft currency would be that of economies which have limited global trade, restrictions 
on their exchange rate determination and have lesser acceptability globally for different 
kinds of transactions. The Indian Rupee and to some extent the Chinese Yuan can be said 
to be presently as soft currencies. Why are exchange rates important in open economies? 
The exchange rates have high sensitivity to influencing inflows and outflows, exports and EXCHANGE RATE DETERMINATION 289
imports into and out of the country’. Besides, too much of volatility can be fundamentally 
destabilizing and have the potential to create crises in economies as witnessed in the past 
especially SE Asian economies.
Exchange Rate and Convertibility
Very  often  market-determined  exchange  rates  and  convertibility  are  first,  ‘wrongly’ 
seen  as  interchangeable  to  mean  the  same  thing  and  the  second,  both,  again  wrongly 
seen, as logical extension of each other. It needs to be understood that ‘exchange rate 
determination’ and ‘convertibility’ are two separate and distinct issues, not dependent on 
each other, not logical extension of each other and all permutations and combinations are
(1) Full float and full convertibility, (US).
(2) Pegged exchange rates and full convertibility, (Thailand).
(3) Pegged exchange rate and no convertibility, (China).
(4) Currency boards and full convertibility (Argentina).
(5) Managed exchange rate and no convertibility or no CAC (as in India). 
(6) Managed exchange rate and complete convertibility (Brazil).
That is, to say that if an economy has full convertibility it does not necessarily imply 
that  it  will  have  to  have  market-determined  exchange  rate  and  vice  versa  as  can 
be  seen  from  above.  However,  both  have  a  common  denominator  in  terms  of  their 
impact on both inflowsas we llaso utfl ows.Thero lepla yed  both by the exchange rateaswell 
asco nv ertibi lity responsiblefor crisisinopen  eco nomie sw illbed iscussedlat er.      
29.2 EXCHANGERATEININDIA
     
Exchange rate determination has truly evolved in India post-independence and transition 
pointsto t heev olution areasfollow  s:    
       
(1) Post-Independence India adopted  a fixed  exchange rate mechanism, with  rupee
  exchanged to pou nd ster ling and vic e versa, at a ‘fix ed ra te’ as determ ined by the 
RBI,being thecentralbank ofthecountr y.            
2) After  gradually  shaking  off the  cl oak of the colonial rule and more broad-based trade,
  even   though  restrictive a nd   widening  of trading  partn ers, the R BI switched  to  a 
‘basket of currencies’, b ut still on a fixed e xchange rate syste m a nd on  exchange rates 
asdeter mi ned by theR BI.                
   
3)  With  the  emergence  of  USD  as  a major  currency  and  the relative  decline  of the 
pounds  sterling  in  relation  to  USD,  RBI  adopted  USD  as  its  ‘intervention  and 
reserve currency’.
•  That is, all the foreign currencies would be denominated in USD including the 
exchange rate for official statistics and their reporting.
•  The RBI thus had an exchange rate for dollars and rates of other currencies could 
be derived from this rate.290 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The first mark of getting off the fixed exchange rate came in the nineties 
with  the  liberalized  exchange  rate  management  system  (LERMS)  which 
allowed for exchange of dollars, 40 per cent at a fixed rate by RBI known as the 
‘official’ rate.
•  The remaining 60 per cent could be exchanged at a ‘market rate’ determined by 
the market. This is also referred to as dual exchange rate (40:60) in India.
•  This also saw the setting up of foreign exchange dealers association of India 
(FEDAI), outside the government, to arrive at the market rate of USD based on 
demand and supply conditions.
(4)  Towards the end of nineties, the RBI announced discontinuance of the official rate 
and only FEDAI determined market exchange rate to prevail, abandoning completely 
the fixed exchange rate system.
(5)  As trade reforms gathered momentum in the last decade, large inflows, necessitated 
the RBI to intervene in the foreign exchange market, what is now referred to as 
‘managed exchange rate’ in India in an otherwise market-determined exchange rate 
system.
Managed Exchange Rate in India
How does the RBI intervene in a market-determined exchange rate? Before understanding 
RBI intervention, let us first understand how exchange rates are market-determined. It is 
well-known that market mechanics, in general, comprises of demand and supply known 
as market forces.
Who are the people who demand USD or any foreign currency in India? It will be the 
importers who will have to pay in foreign currency for their imports, outward tourists, 
overseas  sales  promotion,  government,  those  going  abroad  for  education  or  for  health 
purposes, etc. That is, at any given point of time there will be a demand for USD in 
India.
How is the demand and exchange rate related? If ‘more’ rupees is to be offered to get 
USD, demand will generally be less. People may feel it is too high a rate to get USD 
and resultantly the demand is going to be comparatively ‘lesser’. If one was to reflect it 
graphically, typically it would be downward sloping curve. In the same way, there is a 
continuous stream of USD and other foreign currencies coming into India from sources 
such as remittances, foreign investment, NR1 deposits, ECBs, inward tourists, etc. This 
implies there is also a supply of USD.
As  a  holder  of foreign currency,  your  tendency  would be to  exchange the  foreign 
currency if you are getting ‘more’ rupees. That is, to say that ‘more’ USD would be offered 
for exchange when ‘more’ rupees are being received and vice versa. Thus, the supply curve 
would be upward sloping. This when superimposed along with the demand curve will 
give an intersection point which will determine the exchange rate of USD with respect to 
rupees.EXCHANGE RATE DETERMINATION 291
   
 
               
       
 
The demand and supply curveint ersection pointin t heabov eillustr ation is₹ 40 as th eexcha nge 
rateofUS D.H ow ever, letussay th at ther eisaspu rtin r em it tances into India,ors urgein any  
oth er inf low likethrou gh fore ign i nvestment which willmean  supply ofU SD inIndia will 
increa se andpu sho utwardly thes upply curvegivin gan ewinte rsectio npoint an dan ewexchange 
rate.         
   
 
               
       
            
This increased supply of USD would now give a new exchange rate, in the above 
illustration of USD1  =₹3 8.Th ismea nsnow ‘lesse r’rupee sisbein g o ffered to USD,which is 
referred a sappreciatio n oftherupeeag ains tadepr eciation  of USDasUSDisn owge ttin g ‘less er 
’rup eesthan beforet heincr easein supp ly o fUSD.    
Appreciation of the Rupee
So what is the m  eaning oft his?O n accounto fin creased supply ofU SDin  relation to whatis 
be ing demanded ,n ow ‘ lesser’r upees w  ould beo ffered than earlier to USD, or differently 
rupees now gets ‘more’U  SDt han earlier.T hisis w hatis m eantby  ‘currency appreciation’or 
ru peehas app reciated againstthe doll ar.This can a lso beseen a stheUS Dn owge tting  ‘lesser’
rupees  than ear lier,orthatt o g etth esame rupe es ‘m ore’US Disre quired .T hisisrefe rred  as 
depreciatio n ofthecurrenc y,or thedollar ha sde precia ted  againsttherupees.    292 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Appreciation  or  depreciation  is  not  in  isolation  but  always  in  respect  to  another 
currency. If we say rupee has appreciated then it is also implied that USD has depreciated. 
What is the impact on exports from India? With rupee appreciating implies that India’s 
exportable would now become more expensive in the international market and make our 
exports price uncompetitive, resulting in declining the value of exports.
So an appreciating currency adversely hits exports. Similarly, imports would tend to get 
cheaper, as lesser rupees are required to get USD. It will also balloon the current account 
deficit. This is the rationale of RBI intervention which is to prevent appreciation of the 
rupee to maintain price competitiveness of Indian exports and keeping the CAD under 
check.
How does the RBI intervene? RBI initiates buying USD from the market, by creating 
an artificial demand for USD, absorbing increased excess USD in the economy and the 
exchange rate going back to what it was before the increased supply.
However, there is a flip side to this, which is, any act of purchase of USD by the 
RBI  would  release  rupee  in  the  system  and  increase  the  liquidity  which  can  become 
inflationary. Hence, maintaining export price competitiveness comes at a price of inflation 
in the domestic economy.
To  prevent  inflationary  impact,  the  RBI  simultaneously  goes  for  absorption  of  the 
excess rupee by going in for ‘reverse repo auction’ and soaking up the excess liquidity of 
rupee in the domestic market, which gets created on account of purchase of USD by RBI. 
This is referred as ‘sterilization of the economy’.
Thus, if the RBI is able to ‘completely’ soak the excess rupees from the market or that 
it does not lead to inflationary pressures, it is said to have ‘sterilized the economy’. If not, 
then the RBI has to make a ‘choice’ between export competitiveness and inflation, which is 
also referred as the ‘prisoners dilemma, of being able to manage one of them, but not both.
The other way to intervene is to discourage short-term inflows by imposition of tax, 
referred previously as Tobin tax. However, the issue is that such a tax will be on all’ kinds 
of inflows and cannot be discretionary.
This is what is meant by intervention of the RBI in a market-driven exchange rate and 
the meaning of‘managed exchange rate’.
However  is  managed  exchange  rate  justified  in  market-determined  exchange  rates? 
Market-determined  exchange  rate  as  a  concept  implies  letting  exchange  rate  to  be 
determined outside central bank level and once market determined it becomes a variable, 
fluctuating and economy accepting’ the exchange rate. Exchange rates should always be 
witnessed as a macro tool benefiting the economy at large rather than being used as a 
myopic tool for micro-management. Export is only one of the sectors of the economy and 
that too contributing not more than 20 per cent of the GDP.
An aspect gone completely unnoticed is the impact of an appreciating currency on 
imports  into  India.  Imports  become  cheaper,  and  given  d  our  basket  comprising  of 
crude petroleum, fertilizers, capital goods, etc., all of which will get cheaper and provide 
cushioning effect to inflation.EXCHANGE RATE DETERMINATION 293
In  the  section  on  Exports,  the  aspect  of  exports  has  been  discussed  that it should 
not be seen as a function of exchange rates but should become neutral to exchange rate 
fluctuations.  This  can  be  done  by  moving  up  in  terms  of  value  addition,  quality  and 
degrees of sophistication.
More  importantly,  export  promotion  as  pan  of  open  policies is to achieveg lobal
competitiveness, long-term sustainable growth in exports, for which price competitiveness
is necessary but not a sufficient condition.
The exports and the exporters have to be sensitized about market-determined exchange 
rates being known for their uncertainties, fluctuations and volatility and exports have to 
outgrow and achieve maturity by taking it as a variable and accounted accordingly.
Rather  than  intervention,  India  should  look  at  markets  other  than  the  dollar 
denominated, like the Afro-Asian markets which offer a great opportunity to diversify and 
reduce sensitivity of Indian exports towards exchange rate.
An appreciating rupee reflects strengthening of the currency against a hard currency 
which should be good in the long run.
If  the  Indian  Government  is  not  comfortable  to  the  volatility  or  the  fact  that  our 
exports would always be price-sensitive then moving to a market-determined exchange 
rate was a wrong decision and India, maybe would have been better off, under a pegged 
exchange rate, like China.
So  can  we  conclude  that  intervention  by  RBI  is  totally  unjustified  in  market- 
determined exchange rates? The only justification for RBI intervention is when the inflows 
are witnessed as short-term, reversible, as portfolio investment or for speculation purposes 
arising out of global imbalances likely to correct over a period of time.
It should be as a last resort, in exceptional circumstances, of it being seen as destabilizing 
the domestic economy, creating asset bubbles and fuelling speculation in the economy. 
Such kind of managing exchange rates during late 2010, by many economies such as 
Brazil, S. Korea, Russia and Japan have triggered a currency war’, with each economy 
trying to maintain the exchange rates to preserve their export competitiveness in the wake 
of increased capital inflows.
Such  currency  wars  are self-destructive  in nature and rightfully India has refrained 
from intervening or managing the exchange rate and has taken a lead in cautioning other 
economies of the implications of such currency wars.
Every economy has to understand the basic fundamental of increasing exports which is 
triggered by being price competitive in the short-term, but will not provide for long-term 
global competitiveness. The other is market-determined exchange rate will always be a 
variable and exports cannot do piggy back riding on exchange rate for long, but will have 
to establish their standing in the export market for their long-term sustainability, beyond 
exchange rates.
Depreciation and Devaluation
So far our concern has been with the capital inflows, appreciating currency and impact on 
exports but then there could be yet another situation of capital outflows or the reversal of 294 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
capital outflows or even a sudden spurt in the demand for example, USD or any foreign 
currency. This is completely opposite to when rupee appreciates on account of inflows. 
In this case, demand for USD is far more than what is coming as inflows. More rupees 
would now have to be offered for the same dollar, or the same amount of rupees would 
get lesser’ USD which implies that rupee would start depreciating. At the same time, the 
USD would appreciate as it is now getting more’ rupees than earlier or that ‘lesser’ USD 
is required for the same amount of rupees.
Let ust akeo urea rlier ex change ra teof US D1 = ₹40 a nd with depreciation oftherup ees 
                               
there would beanew exchange rate ofsay USD 1 =₹42.Areference can bemade to the
               
graphicalillustration given earlier,with eithernowthesupply curveshifting inwardsordemand 
   
curveshifting outwards.
                   
Now what happens to  exports and  imports? This implies that exports have
                       
become cheaper in  the international market as the same USD is getting  more rupees
                   
now. And  imports become more expensive as more rupees are required  to  purchase
                       
the USD for addressing imports. This should be good both for our exports as well as
                   
reduce imports and  current account deficit. But unfortunately  for India, our imports
                     
comprise of essentials such as crude oil, import of machineries, etc. This would imply 
                 
a higher ‘value’ to existing volume of imports, widening CAD and fears of importing 
inflation.
                   
A depreciating currency is never seen as a way to promote exports because of larger
             
implications. In  a market-determined  exchange rate a depreciating  home currency  has
                         
deep fallouts. This has the potential of creating a ‘currency crisis’ or a ‘free fall’ situation,
               
of an ever depreciating home currency marking a complete erosion of faith in the home
currency.
                 
This would require the central bank to intervene by selling USD in the market, from
                     
its foreign exchange reserves, to augment the supply which is fine, if there is abundance
                   
of foreign  currency  with  the central bank, but that would  choke liquidity, as rupee
                 
would be sucked out from the system, pushing it into a recessionary phase, calling for an 
             
expansionary monetary policy to counter the choking liquidity arising out of sale of USD
 
in themarket.
               
But there have been instances in the SE Asian economies, of selling foreign currency to 
         
stem depreciation of their currency only precipitated further depreciation plunging them
 
into acurrency crisis.
             
Thus, depreciation  of the currency  in  market-determined  exchange rates, is never
             
seen  as a way  to  increase exports and  central banks in  market-determined  exchange
               
rates, keeps a close watch  especially  if the home currency  is seen  depreciating 
continuously.
                   
However, under the fixed exchange rate system, the central bank ‘deliberately’ changes
             
the exchange rate by offering ‘more’ home currency to a foreign currency referred to as
             
‘devaluation’ of the currency to promote exports. Even in India, RBI resorted to devaluation 
                 
in the late sixties and also in early nineties with the same objective and also with a view to 
               
test its readiness to move towards market-determined exchange rates and also to discourage
     
importsand making exportspricecompetitive.EXCHANGE RATE DETERMINATION 295
So ‘devaluation’ is deliberate by the central bank, under a fixed or pegged exchange 
rate,  while  ‘depreciation  is  under  market-determined  exchange  rate,  arising  out  of 
surge  of  demand  or  in  circumstances  of  outflows  or  a  decline  in  inflows  of  foreign 
currency.
DEPRECIATION OF INDIAN RUPEE-REASONS, 
IMPLICATIONS AND POSSIBLE SOLUTIONS
Since moving to a market-determined exchange rate from 1999, the rupee has sank to a 
new low,t hel owestin  thehis tory ofInd iaofh avi ng breached ₹68 to USD1.Nev er in thep ast
has ther upe efal len so  much againsttheUSD.   
Historical Perspective
A  little  before  Independence  the  parity  between  USD  and  INR  was  1:1,  even  at  the 
                               
timeofIndependence,theexchange ratewasUSD1 =₹5.However,thatwastheeraoffixed 
                     
exchange rate,ofexchange ratesdetermined by RBI.Indiawasthen a‘closed’economy,so 
                 
exchange ratereally did notmatter.Post-independence and overtheyears,India’sproblems
                 
mounted,ofarapidly increasing population,lowgrowth,persistent high inflation,growing 
           
imports,butnotable to earn foreign currency  through exports and also asaclosed and 
           
regulated economy,no otheravenuesofforeign currency coming into India.
In such circumstances, the rupee was devalued especially after 1966 on a number of
               
occasions, to discourage imports and in a bid to increase exports and reign in the growing 
             
trade deficit. In fact trade deficit has become a structural problem of India, of not being 
                           
ableto ‘earn’USDthrough exportsto ‘pay’forimportsofgoods.
               
TowardsMarketExchangeRate
     
The reforms initiated in 1991, only inherited current account deficit, even as it began to 
               
‘open’ the economy, moving away from fixed or a pegged exchange rate in a calibrated 
                 
manner, into a market-determined exchange rate since 1999. The demand and supply of
               
USD in India began to determine exchange rate and not any more by RBI. As a market-
                     
determined exchange rate there would always be movements in exchange rates based on a
                 
number of factors, such as levels of current account deficit, inflows and outflows of foreign 
                       
currencies, influenced through policy environment and both domestic as well as global
             
favourable/adversedevelopments.
 
Just as waves in the sea, sometimes going up and sometimes going down, is a natural
                     
phenomenon, not restricting but allowing boats and ships to sail. The same is true for
                     
market-determined  exchange rates, which  will depreciate or appreciate depending  on 
           
demand supply conditions and always be a variable, not possible to predict. An economy 
               
likeaship,ithasto havethecapability to movealong thewaves.
                 
However, waves can get turbulent, forcing ships to drop anchor. This is the flip side
                   
of a market-determined  exchange rate of a currency  sliding  against foreign  currency,
               
destabilizing economies and pushing them into a crisis-like situation. The present situation 
             
in Indiacannotbesaid to beacrisisso far,butcould beawellbecomeone.
                       296 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Why has the Rupee Depreciated so Steeply?
Ar first depreciation is a ‘symptom’ and not the problem. It is the result and culmination 
of multiple factors. As mentioned previously, India has chronic and persistent trade deficit 
leading to high current account deficit. It has ballooned in recent times due to high crude 
petroleum prices and also surge in imports of gold. A high deficit only implies greater 
demand for USD (to pay for imports) but not enough supply of USD (through exports), 
putting pressure on the rupee to depreciate. Once the rupee begins to depreciate, it further 
widens current account deficit, leading to further down slide of the rupee. At each stage 
the landing gets harder and harder.
This situation can still be addressed, through inflows in the capital account (refer to 
Chapter  on  Balance  of  Payment),  through  foreign  investment,  NRI  deposits,  External 
Commercial  Borrowings  by  corporate  and  other  such  capital  flows  to  cover  current 
account deficit. This was happening in India till December 2012. The deficit was being 
met out of foreign currency coming as FDI, but more through F1I (now referred as foreign 
portfolio investment or as FPI) and NRI deposit. Thus, making the rupee depreciate, just 
like waves but not turbulent and volatile until May 2013.
The problem in capital account as far as India is concerned, is that it comprises more 
of reversible flows like FPI and NRI deposits and not through a relative stable flow as 
FDI. As a result in adverse circumstances, of reversal of such flows, the deficit gets exposed 
resulting in a steep depreciation of the rupee as it has happened since May 2013.
The reversal can be attributed to the Federal Reserve in the US announcing a gradual 
withdrawing  from  quantitative  easing  (QE)  or  abandoning  its  stance  of  following  a 
loose monetary policy. This was done earlier through buy back of debt by the Federal 
Reserve  to  increase  the  supply  of  USD.  US  economy  was  beginning  to  recover  in 
terms  of  turnaround  in  growth,  even  though  marginal,  but  definite  signs  of  recovery 
since  beginning  of  2013.  Continuation  of  loose  monetary  policy  would  have  become 
inflationary which could be a setback to recovery. This would have resulted in lesser supply 
of USD by Federal Reserve, affecting capital flows in all emerging economies including 
India.
Signs of revival of the US economy also lifted US stock markets, resulting in a quick 
withdrawal of FPI from Indian stock markets, an outgo of around USD 6 billion every 
month since May 2013. With both FDI as well as FPI easing, together with reversal of 
FPI, affected supply of USD, leading to sharp depreciation of USD.
The Rupee during November 2016 closed at a fresh 39-month low against the US 
dollar, resulting in $5 billion outflowsfro mfor eign institutionalinve stors(FIIs )in loc alequity  
and bond marketssinceth egov ern mentannoun ced thedemone tisation scheme.
                     
TheFIIsareselling localaswellasotheremerging marketassetson rising expectationsofa
                     
possibleUSinterestratehikein itsnextmid-Decemberpolicy and asspeculation mountsthat
                 
USpresident-electDonald Trumpsreflationary policieswillmean aquickerpaceofmonetary 
                       
tightening by theFederalReserve.Theconcern thathewilltakeamoreprotectionistapproach to 
     
tradehasalso weighed on developing-nation assets.
                         
The home currency has touched a low of 68.80 a dollar. So far in current year, it has
       
fallen  3.81%.The currency  volatility  could  increase and  liquidity  could  become scarceEXCHANGE RATE DETERMINATION 297
during  bouts of market risk aversion and dollar strength, as the market tests the new 
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) leaderships tolerance for weakness in the rupee.
Unless  the  RBI  hints  at  greater  tolerance  of  larger  rupee  depreciation,  there  is  a 
constructive medium-term view on the INR and see it as one of the most resilient EM 
currencies  in  a  strong  dollar  environment.  Potential  anti-immigration  and  anti-trade 
policies in the US would not bode well for developing economies, and the dollar likely 
would strengthen next year—particularly against EM currencies. Bond yields gained after 
the RBI unexpectedly ordered banks to deposit their extra cash with it, in a bid co absorb 
excess liquidity generated by the government ban on larger banknotes.
With depreciation of the rupee becoming fairly certain, gave rise to speculation, both 
on shore and off shore through non-deliverablcs forward (NDF) contracts of rupee and 
USD. These are contracts which do not require delivery of foreign currency, but only 
booking of profits, of the difference between the contracted rate and the actual exchange 
rate on the contracted date on settlement. These contracts are in freer forex markets of 
Singapore and Dubai, outside regulatory’ control of RBI.
What are the Implications of Rupee Depreciation on 
the Indian Economy?
First, India’s imports comprises of essentials such as crude petroleum, machineries and 
fertilizers which become expensive raising their prices facilitating ‘import’ of inflation. 
India is very susceptible to a stubborn and sticky inflation. It hurts the masses in terms of 
across the board higher prices.
All imports become expensive including raw materials, goods and machineries which 
further push  up domestic  costs.  It brings with it negative sentiments in the economy, 
makes investors cautious weary of investment and consumers’ reducing spending in the 
economy. Thus, growth takes a down turn.
Negative sentiments and capital outflows impact the stock markets, which may not 
directly affect the common man but gets reflected as part of negative sentiment in the 
economy. It widens the current account deficit, which may require dipping into scarce 
foreign exchange reserves and their ‘relative adequacy’ could well become ‘inadequate’ if 
the deficit continues to widen. One cannot forget the situation of 1991 when India had 
no other recourse of meeting the deficit by pledging its official levels of gold and seeking 
commercial  loan  from  International  Monetary  Fund  (refer  to  Chapter  on  Multilateral 
Institutions).
There  are  genuine  concerns  arising  out  of  a  depreciating  currency  of  the  domestic 
economy having larger faith in foreign rather than the domestic currency and as mentioned 
previously, the looming fears of currency crisis.
However, a depreciating rupee does make exports cheaper as the same dollar can now 
get more rupees. But exports are not only a function of prices but other aspects such 
as quality, ability to meet changing demands and preferences, global demand, efficient 
logistics,  cargo-handling  capacities,  etc.  Response  to  the  historic  depreciation  of  the 
rupee has, for the first time, tested how much Indian exports are sensitive to prices or 
can lower prices drive up exports from India. The impact cannot be immediate, of an298 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
overnight increase in exports but over a period of time. Many experts feel that the present 
depreciation is a correction’ and in the long run help India in achieving export (price) 
competitiveness.
But definitely a slight depreciation can be considered good as long as it is gradual but 
not such a steep downslide in such a short span of time can destabilize the economy.
What measures are needed to stem the slide of Rupee?
Repo Rate Hike: RBI can consider a hike in repo rate to incentivise foreign investors 
to invest in Indian debt securities and stop the exodus of foreign capital from the 
equity market. This way the demand for the dollar will come down and will provide
some support to Rupee.
Currency  Market  Intervention:  RBI  can  step-up  currency  market  intervention by 
selling more dollars from its reserves which will cater to the higher demand for the US
currency.
Restrict Outward Dollar Remittances: RBI under the liberalised remittances scheme 
can also restrict outward remittance of dollar which is currently capped at $2.5 lakh. 
NRI Bond Issue: RBI can moot the idea of NRI bonds to boost the dollar reserves 
of the country and meet the higher redemption pressure from exporters and foreign 
investors. Through the NRI bonds, RBI can raise dollar deposits from non-resident 
Indians at attractive rates of return.
Open-Market  Operation:  RBI  can  address  this  situation  by  improving  liquidity  in 
the system through open market purchase of bonds and by reducing the Cash Reserve 
Ratio (CRR).
Have These Measures Delivered?
It is quite evident that these measures have been unable to check the extreme rupee volatility. 
It is because these measures are aimed at witnessing rupee depreciation as a problem rather 
than witnessing it as a symptom. All measures are at compressing demand for USD, and that 
is a wrong diagnosis. The problem is not of demand but of supply of foreign currency. Any 
demand compression only allows for leakages, like squeezing a balloon can never contain the  
balloon.
The answer has to come more in addressing supply side problems of augmenting supply 
of USD. This will take care of the demand and also stem rupee volatility.
Potential Solutions to the Symptom
As a first step, the government should go all out to push exports of goods and services, 
remove all bottlenecks to exports and provide logistics support. This is a ‘rare’ opportunity 
for Indian exports, as rupee has depreciated more sharply than currencies of other emerging 
economies, clearly making Indian goods and services virtually the cheapest globally. With 
US recovering and so also the euro zone means global markets would also be looking up.EXCHANGE RATE DETERMINATION 299
The exporters could not have asked for a better time than the present. The response both 
by the government as well as the exporters has to be quick’.
All government departments dealing with exports should be directed to cut red-tapism 
and provide fast clearances wherever required to facilitate faster and quicker exports. Banks 
should be mandated to provide liberal funding for exports.
All  pending  FDI  proposals  with  the  foreign  investment  promotion  board  (FIPB) 
should be fast tracked and cleared expeditiously. Further, FDI norms should be further 
liberalized to attract more FDI. All efforts have to be made to get India back on the growth 
trajectory. Speed up investment by the government, expedite investment proposals held 
up  in  bureaucratic  red-tapism.  Initiate  government  level  reforms  non-controversial  and 
easy to implement. It is not about ‘bold reforms’ but ‘quick reforms’.
Government  has  done  well  to  restrict  non-essential  imports  to  reduce  CAD.  As  a 
further step, India could import more from Iran where it has ‘rupee payment agreement’. 
India could also flag the issue of trade deficit with China, of India importing more from 
China than what it exports. Reducing trade deficit with China (USD 39 billion) would 
also ease the pressure on CAD.
It could also be the time for India to go for ‘full’ convertibility of the rupee, as it 
would encourage inflows. Outflows may not be a worry at this stage as USD has become 
expensive. Convertibility would also allow surfacing of the underground USD into money 
market augmenting supply of USD.
Conclusion
These  are  difficult  times  for  the  Indian  rupee,  but  not  questioning  inherent  strengths 
which are still fundamentally strong and cannot be said as a crisis as being reported in 
the media, the press and even some analysts. There is a definite unwarranted pessimism. 
The levels of savings, availability of resources for investment, levels of forex reserves and 
potential domestic demand are all strong factors of India.
It is time for a collective action of reversing the negative sentiments and restoring the 
faith back on the Indian Economy, through appropriate mix of policies, shaking of the 
political  and  bureaucratic  lethargy  and  re-bouncing  on high growth path  with a  stable 
rupee.
The Impossible Trinity'
It may be observed that exchange rate management is complex and a challenge for any 
central bank. 'There is also the ‘impossible trinity’ that it is impossible for any central bank 
to manage ‘exchange rates, open current accounts and independent monetary policy’ all 
at the same time. At best, it can manage any two of them but not all the three. This is 
the biggest challenge before any central bank of which two, to manage, when all three are 
imperatives, especially in adverse circumstances.300 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) and Nominal Effective Exchange 
Rate (NEER)
With  increased  trading  partners  and  geographies,  the  conventional  market-determined 
rate  while  being  useful  for  transaction  purposes  does  not  allow  an  understanding  of 
export  competitiveness  over  a  period  of  time.  The  REER  is  a  weighted  average  of 
volumes of trade, their exchange rates, adjusted for respective inflation of major trading 
partners and comprises of USD, Pounds Sterling, Euro, Japanese Yen, HK dollars and 
Chinese Yuan.
This  index  is  fairly  an  useful  measure  of  increasing  or  erosion  of  competitiveness 
across major trading partners over a period of time. The NEER is a broader measure of 
export competitiveness comprising of currencies of thirty-six countries but without any 
adjustment for inflation across economies.
Exchange Rate and Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
We have seen that the exchange rates in the ideal sense be a reflection of differences in 
purchasing power of economies on account of various factors. However, this is true only 
if the entire global world had free trade, without any restrictions, ability of goods to move 
across geographies without any hindrance, similar like a bird flying, ability to reach any 
part of the world.
However, the reality is quite the contrary with restrictions to trade, tariffs and non-tariff 
barriers to trade. Exchange rates are influenced by many other factors such as inflows, thus 
completely diluting it as a measure of differential purchasing power across countries.
If the Indian Rupee is appreciating against the USD, it does not imply improvement 
in the purchasing power. By using the conventional exchange rate, without adjustment 
for purchasing power would not be a correct measure for comparison of economies in a 
common currency.
Thus, was borne the concept of purchasing power parity (PPP) which is the adjustment 
made to the exchange rate such that they truly represent differences in purchasing power. 
PPP is now a globally accepted methodology being used for all international comparisons 
but all actual transactions in foreign currency7 and their conversion would continue to’ be 
guided by the conventional exchange rate.
Thus,  all  comparisons  of  GDP  and  GNI  per  capita  is  done  both  by  using  the 
conventional exchange rates for USD of economies and also on adjusted exchange rate 
or at PPP. The use of USD as a common denominator, for all international comparison 
purposes is for historical reasons and also because of the US being the largest economy ir. 
terms of its output.
In a later section, a comparison of the Indian economy from a global perspective tc 
facilitate an understanding of its global position both by using the conventional exchange 
rate and also at PPP will be discussed.

CHAPTER30
FOREIGN EXCHANGE
RESERVES
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (FEX) OF INDIA
Foreign  Exchange Reserves is  country’s gold  reserves, contributions made to the IMF 
and the FTP and all the foreign currency assets, denominated in USD, held by the RBI. 
However, over 90 per cent of the reserves comprise of different foreign currencies, but 
denominated in USD held by RBI.
India’s FEX reserves have risen from a modest level of USD 5 billion during 1991 to 
reach around USD 275 billion in 2013 and inching towards the USD 300 billion mark. 
India’s foreign exchange reserves scaled to touch USD 367.64 billion as on October 7, 
2016. Currently India’s Forex reserve touched 400 and standing at 401.8 as on March 2019
Amongst the emerging economies China has reserves of USD 3.5 trillion, Japan USD 
1.5 trillion, Russia USD 500 billion, and S. Korea USD 300 billion.
The importance of FEX reserves lies in the following aspects:
(1)  As economies pursue open policies, with large cross-border inflows and outflows, it 
provides a buffer against global fallouts and prevents currency crisis-like situations.
(2)  It helps economies to provide import cover, not met out of inflows, ensuring smooth 
imports, in terms of domestic requirements.
(3)  It gives the freedom to run higher current account deficits which could otherwise 
become a limiting factor for open economies.
(4)  It is helpful for economies to retire their high cost foreign currency debt or in meeting 
short-term foreign currency debt.
(5)  It strengthens the confidence of the government for greater openness of economies 
and bolder reforms.
6)  It increases international credibility and stature of economies.
7)  Its importance also lies as fundamental requirement for emerging economies by 
providing them a "hard currency’.
How do reserves build-up in emerging economies? In the previous section, we had discussed 
about India’s reserves and it may be interesting to note that it essentially comprises of 
Asian economies.302 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
What about US or Europe? These economies already have a hard currency in circulation, 
thus obviating the need for any forex reserves. The reserves are required, as said previously 
for the emerging economies unlike the stronger economies of the US or Europe, which in 
complete adverse circumstances, can print their hard currency, unlike emerging economies 
which can borrow but cannot print hard currency.
There is yet another reason for reserves not being built-up in these economies, which is 
that these economies have market-determined exchange rates and convertible currencies. 
All inflows and outflows are matched through changes in the exchange rate.
Let us see how this works? For example, in Europe there is a huge inflow of USD. 
That is, more USD is coming than what is being demanded in Europe. This would make 
the Euro appreciate and depreciate the USD and this will continue till the inflows get 
discouraged as it would be getting lesser and lesser Euro with a depreciating USD.
Any intervention by any central bank in this free flow foreign exchange market, either 
in the form of pegged exchange rates or in the absence of convertibility, or even both, 
would imply build-up of reserves by the central bank.
The other can be if there are surpluses in the capital account over and above the current 
account deficit. These surpluses would result in increasing reserves of the central bank as 
overall BOP would require outflows balanced out by inflows. If the current account is in 
surplus it will straight away go as additions to forex reserves.
In case of India, exchange rates are managed and any capital inflows would be mopped 
up  by  RBI  to  prevent  rupee  from  appreciating,  thus  resulting  in  building-up  reserves. 
Further even though India has a current account deficit there were, until recently, sufficient 
inflows on the capital account to cover the current account deficit and surplus going to 
increase the forex reserves.
This  will  be  true  for  all  economies  which  do  not  have  either  market-determined 
exchange rate or convertible currency or both, in the wake of surge in foreign currency 
inflows into such economies. This build-up of reserves also happens in economies which 
lack  absorption  capacity  of  foreign  currency  or  economies  running  current  account 
surpluses but with pegged exchange rates or non-convertible currencies. This is why there 
is build-up reserves in China and Japan.
More than the build-up of reserves, the large inflows are seen as opportunities for the 
large overseas investors, besides providing the emerging economies with buffer of foreign 
exchange for handling adverse global fallouts.
Can India’s reserves accumulation be said to be ‘sufficient’ for warding off any crisis? A 
point needs to be clarified first, is the fact, that crises are known for their unpredictability 
and their magnitude of impact or the extent of damage they could inflict upon economies 
are variables. It is also about the government s perception about sufficiency seen qualitatively 
rather than quantitatively. Each of the successive crises in the past has only raised the bar 
of sufficiency of reserves.
However, over a period of time, with experience gained, it has now been possible to 
prescribe some international benchmarks to gauge sufficiency of reserves, especially for the 
emerging economies, like India.FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES 303
(1)  Import Cover—the reserves should be able to provide an import cover of at least 
three months. Against which reserves in India provide a cover of seven months (it has 
come down presently but earlier it was as high as fifteen months).
(2)  External Debt Cover—the reserves to provide cover for at least 75 per cent of the 
external debt and 100 per cent of short-term debt. India’s level presently is much 
higher than that prescribed of being at least 50 per cent.
(3)  Guidotti Rule—in terms of this rule average reserve holding to short-term debt during 
a year should be a minimum of one. Against this in India it is five.
(4)  Liquidity at Risk (LaR)—this is the most prevalent and widely acceptable given by 
Alan Greenspan, the earlier Chief of the Federal Reserve, US.
LaR  is  a  matrix  of  the  likely  outflows  under  various  adverse  circumstances  at 
different  levels  of  probability  of  their  occurrence  and  confidence  levels.  The  LaR  is 
a  dynamic,  statistical  model  mapping  outflows  from  economies  in  terms  of  which 
sufficiency can only be arrived at based on a set of assumptions, requiring continuous 
modification.
However, as said previously, crises are unpredictable and so arc their impact and neither 
the Guidotti rule nor the one given by Greenspan has been tested and have yet to prove 
their worth.
How can a country like India utilize its reserves? There is a major limitation in the use 
of reserves, in that they can be utilized only in foreign currency and cannot be converted 
into home currency. Any conversion into home currency would increase liquidity and be 
inflationary in nature. So how can they be used in foreign currency?
(1)  It can be used to liquidate external debt. However, as we have discussed in the  section 
on External Debt that all high cost debt has already been retired by India.
There is another problem which is retiring of external debt would mean increasing 
internal debt which would leave the over all-debt position unchanged.
(2)  India could consider lowering import duties, run higher CAD to absorb the reserves. 
However, lowering import duties beyond a level could hurt domestic production and 
running high CAD is always fraught with risk.
(3)  The RBI cannot lend commercially as it being a central bank can lend only to banks, 
which if done, will seep into the economy and can create inflationary pressures.
(4) Thego vernmentto  ensureliqu idity hasdeplo yed thereserv espartly  in UStreasury  billsand 
partl y in globalsovereign b ondswheretheretu rnsare less butensur eliq uidity .    
The irony is India is investment starved but the reserves cannot be used to bridge this
inve stment de ficit o r d irectly use it for infrast ructu re fundin g in th e co untry. Realizing  the 
limitation, the gov ern ment had se t up  the Deepak Pa rekh Committe e to exa mine how the 
reservesca n be  used forinf rastructu redevel opmentin India.        
Based   on  t he reco mmendations made and  a ccepted  by  the government, the India
Infrastructure Fin ance Co. Ltd., wh olly o wned by the governme nt would bo rrow  USD 
10 billion fro m the RB I an d set up two wholly owned s ubsidiaries (W  OS) overseas  one at 
London and the othe ratS ingapor e.          
     304 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The WOS at London would provide loans to Indian companies raising fund overseas 
for capital imports directly for use in infrastructure in the country. The WOS at Singapore 
would invest in AAA rated paper of global companies and from the returns generated 
provide a credit wrap or a monoline insurance, an insurance against defaults, to Indian 
companies accessing the overseas market for infrastructural development domestically.
There could yet be certain other set of options before the government for utilization of 
the reserves which are as follows:
(1)  Sovereign  Wealth  Funds  (SWF)—many  countries  such  as  China,  Japan  and 
Saudi Arabia have deployed part of their reserves for setting up SWF which look at 
maximizing returns rather than currency stabilization. However, all the SWFs lack 
transparency and modus operandi not known except the objective behind SWFs.
•  However, given the volatility of inflows, fragile BOP, high CAD, modest export 
growth  it may be premature for India to look at the SWFs as an option for 
utilization of reserves unlike China and Japan whose reserves are many multiples 
more that of India.
•  But more importantly their BOP is much more fundamentally stronger than that 
of India.
•  In any case, India needs to use it for infrastructure and other priorities which will 
not be possible by SWFs.
(2)  Strategic Oil Reserves (SOR)—given India’s dependence on crude petroleum and 
vulnerability to their prices, a part of the reserves could be used to create a SOR, in 
periods of sharp upward movement of international crude prices.
(3)  Asian Development Fund (ADF)—China, Japan and India amongst themselves are 
holding USD 6 trillion as reserves of the USD 15 odd trillion of global reserves.
•  If these countries could pool a part of their reserves to set up an Asian development 
fund  (ADF),  something  like  the  IMF  to  provide  assistance  to  the  emerging 
economies, should they face problems on their currency.
•  This will also be in line with the gradual shifting of global output and trade to 
the Asian economies.
However, this will require meeting of political minds, setting aside differences 
and more mature outlook of all these countries to make this a reality. 
India’s forex reserves since 1991 has come a long way giving it comfort on the 
external front and the confidence of weathering turbulent domestic and global 
fall outs.

CHAPTER31
REGIONAL TRADING
BLOCS
REGIONAL TRADING
So far, we have discussed various components of the external sector, generic process of 
globalization  and  the  strategies  being  followed  for  opening  of  economies.  A  reference 
was  also  made  to  the  basis  of  trade  across  countries,  which  was  more  economic  in 
nature based on the theory of comparative advantage of goods being traded depending 
on  their  relative  cost  of  production  in  different  economies,  based  on  their  resource 
endowments.
However,  a  new  dimension  to  trading  has  been  given  through  regional  trading 
or  trading  across  regions  having  some  degree  of  commonality  as  a  region,  proximity, 
or  culture,  tastes  and  preferences,  similar  resources,  etc.,  or  any  such  common 
denominator.
This is in complete contrast to trading with the Rest of the World (ROW) which is based 
on economic criteria and results in measurable welfare gains for all.
Need for Regional Trading
(1)  Even though it is widely accepted that trading with the ROW is far more beneficial 
for economies, over 60 per cent of the global trade is through 200 odd regional blocs 
in the world. Economies are being driven towards regional trading out of domestic 
compulsions  of  looking  at  newer  markets  for  their  products  outside  domestic 
boundaries.
(2)  Regional trading allows for judging of competitiveness and acceptability of domestic 
goods.
(3)  It enables all the trading partners to collectively have a ‘larger’ voice in the international 
arena on international issues.
(4)  Regional trading is always meant to achieve penetration of markets, increased trade 
and host of other objectives such as economic cooperation, jointly addressing issues 
of energy, environment, political consensus on global issues, etc.306 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(5)  It provides for greater bonding across regions facilitating investment in economics.
(6)  It opens economies for tourism, exchange programmes achieving greater degree of 
cohesion among member countries.
Nature of Regional Trading
First, it can be bilateral (two countries), trilateral (three countries) or pluri-lateral (more 
than three countries) but can never be multilateral. That is, to say the ‘region’ and not the 
‘product’ has to be the basis of trade. This is the basic difference between regional and 
multilateral trading, of the former around regions and the latter across products and not 
across a given geography but traded globally. Secondly, it could be trade agreements which 
give preferential treatment to goods of member countries. Thirdly, it could be broader in 
nature by looking at areas of economic cooperation, joint ventures, etc. Fourthly, it could 
be deeper framework agreements looking for cementing ties between member countries 
and government level cooperation.
Most of the regional trading is around trade agreements. Economic cooperation and 
framework agreements are of recent origin and in an evolutionary phase.
Trade Agreements
Each and every economy has its own set of restrictions of goods coming into the country 
by imposition of import duty also known as tariffs. An important constituent of any trade 
agreement would be either gradual reduction of the tariff levels on different product lines 
or even their elimination. Even before entering into any trading agreement, as a first step, 
is according status of most favoured nation (MFN), which is based on the principle of non 
discrimination of goods in terms of tariffs and import duties on goods coming from that 
country in relation to goods coming from ROW.
Trading agreements is the next step, around goods and tariffs/import duties and can 
be of various levels:
Level 1—under this, the member countries agree to give a preference in the import duty or 
tariffs for defined product line. This is referred as preferential tariff agreements 
(PTA). Let us say, tariff line on pens is 10 per cent for a country, a PTA would 
mean that pen coming from a member country would attract a lower tariff of 
say 8 per cent, and if coming from ROW then tariff lines would be 10 per cent. 
Level 2—the member countries agree to drop tariff levels to zero on defined product lines 
or agree to drop it to zero over a given time frame. While member countries drop 
tariffs to zero, each of them is free to have a different tariff for trading with the 
ROW. This is referred as free trade agreements (FTA).REGIONAL TRADING BLOCS 307
Level 3—it is similar to Level 2 except that the member countries, besides having free 
trade amongst them, also agree to a have a common tariff line’ for dealing with 
the ROW. This is referred as ‘Customs Union’.
Level 4—the deepest form of regional trading is besides free trade amongst them but also 
agree to have a common currency and a common monetary policy.
Issues in Regional Trading
The first is defining the ‘sensitive list’, or a negative list which would not be open to trade, 
those product lines on whom tariffs would not be reduced. This is also referred as trading 
to a negative list, which means trading in goods, other than those in the negative list. Very 
often it is not possible to arrive at a consensus by the member countries. The second is the 
‘early harvest’ ,w hich is that any agreement will require dropping of tariff lines on certain 
product lines immediately on signing of thea greement.
The third, it is difficult to establish tangible welfare gains under regional trading. Any 
trading has two aspects, trade creation and trade diversion. Trade creation happens if a high 
cost domestic input is replaced by globally the ‘lowest’ cost input. Trade diversion happens 
when a high cost domestic input is replaced by a lower cost input from a member country, 
which may not be the lowest in the world.
In regional trading it is difficult to establish whether trade creation or diversion is taking 
place. Regional trading does allowr for expansion of trade but whether this expansion is 
better than trading with the ROW is not conclusively established.
The fourth is the contentious issue of establishing what is known as ‘Rules of Origin’ 
(ROO), which is how to establish that a good being traded with a member country has 
originated in the member country. This is becoming increasingly complex to resolve with 
emergence of global companies operating out of multiple locations, many of them housed 
in members of various trading blocs. The ROOs may well dilute the entire concept of 
regional trading.
The experience of various trading blocs in the world has been mixed and difficult to 
quantify other than that the trade has increased.
The other aspect also established has been that countries with large intra-regional trade 
have also seen increased multilateral trade at the same time. It has also been established 
that regional trading is only better than no trading.
What has not been established is that is this a better option than trading on a multilateral 
platform?308 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Should Regional Trading Be Promoted?
If one was to keep aside the issue of welfare gains, regional trading should be promoted 
because:
(1)  It is the global trend and one cannot be a silent spectator in the tide. Not swimming 
with the tide would definitely imply a missed opportunity.
(2)  Such blocs enable building a collective voice at the international platform, giving 
bargaining strength on international matters.
(3)  It sub-serves other interests of economic cooperation and cements regional ties.
(4)  It can also be seen as a stepping stone of entering the global platform as it will allow 
for building relative efficiency and competitive abilities.
(5)  It can provide a boost to investment and tourism.
Is regional trading in conflict with multilateral trading? Or does it mean that regional 
trading would lose significance after consensus at WTO? There is no conflict between 
regional and multilateral trading. Regional trading can co-exist with multilateral trading. In 
fact, both can play a complementary role with multilateral trading providing welfare gains 
to economies while regional trading to meet objectives of economic cooperation, better 
regional ties, mutual betterment and a larger collective voice for them in international 
matters.
Even  though  both  forms  of  trading  are  around  tariffs  and  import  duties  there  is a 
critical difference of regional trading is around applied’ rates of tariffs while multilateral is 
around ‘bound’ or the maximum rates of tariffs.
India and Regional Trading
India has been a rather late entrant in regional trading as many of the major agreements 
were concluded in as late as 2007. India has a number of operational agreements bi-lateral 
(Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, S. Korea, Bhutan, Nepal, etc.), tri-lateral (India, Brazil and South 
Africa [1BSA]), and pluri-lateral agreements (ASEAN), ranging from PTAs to FTAs to 
even broader areas of economic cooperation (Singapore, Thailand, Japan, S. Korea, etc.) 
and even framework agreements (Bay of Bengal Initiatives for Multi Sectoral Technical 
and Economic Cooperation [BIMSTEC]).
While all the agreements would provide expansion of trade, two operational agreements 
can be said to be the landmarks for India in terms of both markets as well as opportunities 
offered. ASEAN + 3 now ASEAN + 4 (Japan, China, S. Korea and India). This has become 
operational from 1 January 2010.
India has agreed to drop tariff lines to zero across 4000 products within six years. Ihe 
sensitive list on which there would be no reduction has been pruned down to only four 
hundred  and  eighty-nine  products.  This  agreement  alone  has  the  potential  to  increase 
trade by over USD 50 billion over the next decade or so.REGIONAL TRADING BLOCS 309
The other is the IBSA which has the potential to provide newer markets in African and 
Latin American countries. India in the last few years has been fairly aggressive in concluding 
agreements conscious of the fact that it has been a late entrant and not to miss the bus.
It  has  taken  a  different  line  of  trading  of  moving  away  from  conventional  global 
‘vertical trading’ into a ‘horizontal’ or deeper levels of regional trading. Global trading 
is around goods and tariffs while India as part of horizontal trading has gone beyond 
goods of trade in services and also areas of economic cooperation through comprehensive 
economic  agreements  (CECA)  and  comprehensive  economic  partnership  agreements 
(CEPA). CECA is an agreement of trade in goods, the same like a FTA but an additional 
agreement of willing to negotiate or open to trade in services and also explore areas of 
mutual  economic  cooperation.  Once  these  areas  are  negotiated,  finalized  and  signed  it 
becomes CEPA.
India has CECA in different stages with Singapore, France, Australia, Japan and CEPA 
with S. Korea, Sri Lanka, Hong Kong.
It is in the process of finalizing a broad based trade and investment agreement (BTLA) 
with the European Union which will open up entire Europe for trading.
Regional trading is seen as a way to accelerate exports and at the same time establishing 
better relations with member countries.
It will give an opportunity to explore newer markets, new trading partners, diversified 
trade, greater economic cooperation and a definite signal of its intention of making trade 
an engine of growth in future.
However,  openness  and  trade  are  not  only  market-driven  or  about  newer  markets 
bur also the ability to penetrate by being efficient and competitive. This is the challenge 
before the government, that eventually what matters, is not the markets of regional or 
multilateral,  but  to  be  globally  competitive.  That  is,  where  reforms  have  helped  but 
require far greater aggression in reforms to truly establish India as a globally competitive 
economy.
31.2 PREFERENTIAL TRADE AGREEMENTS
Preferential  Trade  Agreements  (PTAs)  have  been  proliferating,  especially  since  the 
establishment  of  the  World  Trade  Organisation  (WTO)  in  1994.  As  of  1st  December 
2015, the WTO had received notifications of no less than 619 PTAs (disaggregated by 
goods, services, or accessions), of which 413 were already in force. Between 2008 and 
2012, PTAs grew at an average year-on-year rate of 24 percent.
Five forms of PTAs,, with subsequent arrangement being a deeper form of integration, 
requiring more coordination and a greater loss of autonomy are:
•  Partial Scope Agreement (PSA) is only partial in scope, allows for trade between 
countries on a small number of goods.
•  A free trade agreement is a preferential arrangement in which members reduce tariffs 
on trade among themselves, while maintaining their own tariff rates for trade with 
nonmembers.310 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
A customs union (CU) is a free-trade agreement in which members apply a common 
external tariff (CET) schedule to imports from non members.
common marketisacus to m sunion w heremovem entoffacto rs ofprod uc tion is
>
relatively free amongst member countries.
An economic union is a common market where member countries coordinate macro- 
economic and exchange rate policies.
India and Free-Trade Agreements
In addition to its long-standing commitment to multilateralism under WTO agreements 
and in line with global trends, India has made use of FTAs as a key component of its 
trade and foreign policy, especially from 2003-04 onwards. India has mainly focused on 
partnering  with  other  Asian  countries,  and  in  goods more so  than in services. Within 
Asia, India has signed bilateral FTAs with SriLanka (1998), Afghanistan (2003), Thailand 
(2004), Singapore (2005), Bhutan (2006), Nepal (2009), Korea (2009), Malaysia (2011) 
and Japan (2011). There have also been two regional trade agreements, the South Asian 
Free  Trade  Agreement  (SAFTA,  2004)  and  the  India-Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations Agreement (ASEAN, 2010). Outside Asia, FTAs have been agreed with Chile 
(2006) and MERCOSUR (2004) .There is varing degree of depth of integration offered by 
these FTAs both in goods and services.
31.3 INDIA'SEXPERIEN  CEWITHREG IONA LTRADEAG  REEME NTS
India’s  experience  with  Regional  Trade  Agreements  (RTAs)  have  become  increasingly 
prevalent since the early 1990s. RTAs cover more than half of international trade and 
operate  alongside  global  multilateral  agreements  under  WTO.  As  of  now,  around  400 
RTAs are in force globally. 14 RTAs are in force in India with a dozen more under 
negotiation.
Regional Trade Agreements today go beyond tariff cuts in trade in goods and incorporate 
various other components like liberalization in services, investment etc. India’s experience 
with respect to some comprehensive agreements can be summed up in the following ways
•  India’s  exports  to  FTA  countries  have  not  outperformed  overall  export  growth  or 
exports to rest of the world.
•  FTAs have led to increased imports and exports, although the former has been greater
•  India’s trade deficit with ASEAN, Korea and Japan has widened post-FTAs
•  According to Economic Survey 2016-17, FTAs have had a bigger impact on metals on 
the importing side and textiles on the exporting side.
•  A 10% percent reduction in FTA tariffs for metals increases imports by 1.4 %
•  India’s exports arc much more responsive to income changes as compared to price 
changes and thus a tariff reduction/elimination docs not boost exports significantly.
•  Utilisation rate of RTAs by exporters in India is very low (between 5 and 25%)PART
c
GLOBA L ECONOMY  AND 
OUTLOOK
Post-Crisis an d Beyond...

CHAPTER32
INDIA AND THE
GLOBAL ECONOMY
GLOBAL OUTPUT
In an earlier section, we had seen the combined output of the global economy being USD 
80.684 trillion in 2017,with one fourth accounted for by the US Economy of about USD 
19.39 trillion (2017),making it the largest economy of the world. That is the Importance 
of US economy.
It  was  previously  mentioned  that  the  international  comparisons  are  being 
performed  through  two  yardsticks,  one  the  conventional  exchange  rate  and  the  other 
adjusted  exchange  rate  also  known  as  purchasing  power  parity  (PPP)  basis.  PPP  is 
an  adjustment  made  to  the  conventional  exchange  rate  to  capture  differentials  in 
purchasing  power  for  meaningful comparisons of  economies. This  is done  by freezing 
a common set of goods freely traded, which can be bought for USD 1 and then the 
price  of  the  same  set  in  other  economies.  Say  conventional  exchange  rate  is  USD 
1 = ₹63 but itt ermso fP PPs ay itis U SD1  =₹9 ,th en adjustmentwi llbe by  a
factor of 7.
PPP has wider acceptability as a measure of global comparison, whereas transactions 
are done on conventional market-determined/pegged exchange rates.
Various institutions such as IMF and World Bank do ranking of different economies in 
terms their GDP, per capita GDP etc., and all ranking is after denominating the parameters 
in USD. Ranking by them can vary but not divergent.
Position of India
First by the conventional exchange rate, World Bank has ranked India sixth largest globally, 
with the output crossing USD 2 trillion to reach USD2.59 trillion. The second largest 
economy after US is China with an output of USD 5 trillion, followed by Japan, Germany 
and United Kingdom. Even though India has joined USD 2 trillion output club, its share 
in global output is 2.4 percent.
However by using the adjusted exchange rate or PPP basis, India output increases to 
USD  9.4  trillion  making  its  the  fourth  largest  economy  after  US  (USD  15.6  trillion) 
China (USD 12.4 trillion) and Japan (USD 4.3trillion).It can also see that third largest 
economy after China (USD23.3trillion) and united States (USD 19.39 trillion).314 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The GNI per capita is often seen as a measure of increased income of the people, which 
is the total output divided by the population. This has its own limitations but still useful 
enough to give a reasonable comparison of income levels across economies. The rank in 
GNI per capita globally, for both India as well as China, is very low whether seen from 
conventional exchange rate or PPP basis.
India  GNI  per  capita  in  PPP  basis  is  USD  7060  while  it  is  USD  1820  by  the 
conventional method, with a very low rank. China is slightly better placed than India but 
still low by global standards of a rank of just over 100. Let us look at GNI per capita of 
other countries. The highest GNI per capita (Atlas method) is that of Isle of Man (USD 
82650)  followed  by  Switzerland  (USD  80560)  USA  with  its  GNI  per  capita  of  USD 
50,270 is ranked eighth in the world.
What is the implication of this for India? In comparison to these economies, India is 
a poor country despite having an output of over USD 3 trillion. Is it because of the large 
population base? Yes, it can be said so. All the other economies of the world have far lesser 
population, which translates into a high GNI per capita, not true for countries such as 
India and China.
What can be done about this? The implication of this is that while output of countries 
such as India and China are good by the global perspective but not sufficient enough for 
the domestic economy. The answer thus has to be rapidly expanding output to increase 
income levels and improve our global rank, but this will happen slowly and over time 
spanning decades.
Human Development Index
What  would  understand  by  “Human  development”?  We  have  seen  earlier  that  India’s 
output (GDP) is the fourteenth largest in the world or by saying that India is the fastest 
growing economy in the world after china or that India is the second largest market after 
china.
However, we have also seen the low rank in GDP per capita. Realizing that modern 
economics  lacked  measurement  standards  for  human  development  in  the  overall 
growth  process,  two  noted  Asian  economists  Dr  Mahbub  U1  Haq  (Pakistan)  and  Dr 
Amartya  Sen  (India)  formulated  the  Human  Development  Index  popularly  known  as 
the HDI in the nineties. The first comparison of economies based on HDI was during 
1990.
This  index  is  simple,  completely  objective  and  measurable  to  track  down  the 
governmental  efforts  for  ‘basic’  human  development  efforts  and  useful  for  ranking 
countries of the world. The index today has global acceptability and forms the basis for 
ranking of countries by UNDP in their Human Development Report.
Only three parameters are used in the index. The parameters, their relative weight in 
the index, their minimum and maximum values is given below:INDIA AND THE GLOBAL ECONOMY 315
Parameter Weight Maximum Value Minimum Value Formula
Life expectancy  1/3 85 years 25 years
at birth
Education 1/3 (Value for the  country -
index of which: minimum value) divided by 
(maximum value under the 
parameter - minimum value)
(i) Adult 2/3 of 100 per cent 0 per cent
literacy ratio 1/3
(ii) Gross 1/3 of 100 per cent 0 per cent
enrolment 1/3
ratio
GDP per capita 1/3 USD 40,000 USD 100
(USD in PPP*)
*PPP is the purchasing power parity.
The value or the index would range from 0 ro 1 and is taken up to 3-digit decimal. 
The closer the value to 1 it is said good efforts at human development and value lower 
than 0.500 is said to be not satisfactory. The methodology and criteria has been slightly 
modified from 2010 by making it more scientific first by converting each of the three 
parameters into an index.
Secondly, adult literacy and gross enrolment index has been refined into an education 
index comprising (a) Mean years of schooling index (number of years that a 25-year-old 
has spent in school) and (b) Expected year of schooling (EYS) which is years that a 5-year- 
old child will spend in education over a life span.
The composite HDI would be a harmonic mean of all the 3 (All multiplied and then 
cube root taken).
What is your guess on India’s HDI rank globally? Well of the one hundred and eighty 
nine countries, India is at 130th position with HDI value 0.640(2017 data).
What would be your inference from the above? That is to say, as explained previously 
also, is that the expansion of output though impressive by global standards is insufficient 
domestically to provide for basic human development in the country.
The population of US, the largest economy in the world, is even lesser than those 
below poverty line in India not to talk of the entire population. Then can we say, India’s 
population  that  being  the  second  most  populous  country  after  China,  which  is  largely 
responsible for the low HDI rank?
Well! the answer to that first is, if China can have a better rank with the highest 
population in the world why not India?
Secondly, traditional thinking has changed and today high population is seen more as 
an asset rather than liability in terms of potential markets, source for domestic demand 
and  manpower.  What  is  required  is  their  proper  harnessing  through  education,  skill 316 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
development and building human capital. It is in this direction India’s efforts have been 
modest to say optimistically.
Thirdly, one has to realize that curbing population is long protracted effort and has 
a  number  of economic and non-economic issues and could span several decades. One 
cannot  wait  for  population  to stabilize  before launching developmental efforts or even 
worst wait for natural calamities to take their own toll.
Curbing population by many countries in the past is now showing adverseness like 
ageing workforce. India is blessed to have a favourable demographic dividend. India has 
over 50 per cent of its population under 25 years of age which cannot be said to be the 
same for any other country in the world today. And like said in the earlier paragraph the 
population requires only proper harnessing.
Finally, rather than looking at global comparison India should get focused on domestic 
priorities, needs of the social sector, human development and improving administrative 
governance at all levels. Look at the domestic requirements and then working to achieve 
the desired levels of output.
The HDI is a reflection of governmental efforts towards human development and the 
lowr rank of India should not be seen as a criticism of the government given the large 
size of the economy. It should serve as a wake-up call for the government to re-orient its 
strategies, properly align them aimed at basic human development. So that the people in 
general get the feeling of well-beingness with improved standards of living with growth of 
the economy and a vastly improved rank at the HDI.
It is wrongly perceived that outward orientation is only for exports or capital inflows 
or for the affluent. This orientation can as well be harnessed to fulfil domestic priorities. A 
significant role can be played by leveraging education, technology, scientific research, all 
possible by looking beyond domestic frontiers, outward looking for providing economic 
betterment for the people.
It is  in thisc onte xtour earliersecti on wasti tled as‘E xternalSector—Looking
Outwards . And this section ‘The Global Economy and Outlook’, provides a perspective 
and outlines the broad overall contours of the world economy, extremely relevant, for 
economies like India, asi tt readsi nto af airly uncertain,tu rbulentan d volatilefu ture.
32.2 INDIA AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT INDEX (2018)
•  India is placed at 130th position among 189 countries in the latest Human Development 
Index  (HDI)  report  released  by  United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP) 
India’s HDI value for 2017 was marked at 0.640, which was still higher than the South 
Asian average of 0.638.
•  Between 1990 to 2017, India’s HDI value saw a 50 per cent increase from 0.427 co
0.640, life expectancy at birth increased by nearly 11 years, the average years of children 
staying in school is increased by 4.7 years and gross per capita income increased by a 
staggering 266.6 per cent between 1990 and 2017.
•  The report also notes that about 26.8 per cent of India’s HDI value is lost on account 
of inequalities and the inequality still remains a challenge for India.

CHAPTER33
GLOBAL ECONOMY—
A TRANSITION
33.1 GLOBAL TRANSITION
The global economy has undergone a sharp transformation in the last two decades. It 
will be interesting to see evolution of global economy from an economic perspective. It 
was earlier, dominance of the British Empire with its growing imperialism, colonization 
and mass-scale exploitation of colonies. Trade flourished adding to wealth of the British 
Empire but at the cost of the colonies.
The  second  transition was the wave of breaking free from colonial rule, an era of 
independence with a large number of countries gaining independence and the beginning 
point of rebuilding their economies highly protected and regulated.
The third transition was the emergence of US, UK, Germany and Japan as superpowers 
and  the  increased  polarization  of  economies  referred  to  as  the  ‘North-South  divide’ 
(Developed—Developing countries).
A  clear  dominance  and  superiority  of  the  North  (developed)  economies  in  the 
global economy. They earned the distinction of being First World countries. Then the 
demarcation, between the First World and the Third World countries, mostly developing 
countries like that of India, China, etc., which only accentuated the divide. This was also 
referred as the ‘cold war’ period.
The  decade  of  the  eighties  and  nineties  had  seen  the  dominance  of  the  QUAD 
countries comprising of the US, Europe and Japan in terms of global output, trade and 
investments. The fourth transition was the breakdown of the erstwhile USSR and reforms 
in China with lesser role of the respective governments and larger role for trade amongst 
countries.
With  China  reform  process  initiated  in  the  seventies  and  other  Asian  economies 
subsequently, the global economy gradually opened up to the Asian economies. This also 
diffused the polarization and led to evolution of multi-polar trading. The concept of Third 
World countries, developing countries, or countries looked down upon, changed to that 
of‘New and Emerging Economies’ of the global economy. At the same time, it also saw 
the emergence of the south east economies, as Asian Tigers, rapidly transforming their 
economies with high rates of growth and sharp increase in income levels. This brought 
out the importance of trade and open policies and how they can transform economies in 
a short period.318 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
However, the crisis in these economies was as sudden as their rise, spreading like a 
contagion  which  brought  in  uncertainty  and  question  mark  raised  on  open  economies 
and open policies. Their subsequent revival has somewhat diluted the impact but did set 
the cautious mode in all these economies. Not with standing the crisis, the last decade has 
clearly belonged to the ‘emerging economies’ of China, India, S. Korea, Indonesia, etc., 
emerging as an important players in the global economy in terms of contribution to global 
output, trade and investment and marks a distinct shifting of axis away from the so-called 
First World countries.
However, the real turning point, probably the first of its kind ever witnessed in economic 
history, greater in magnitude than even the great depression of 1929-1933, in terms of 
the potential fallouts, is the global crisis being witnessed since 2008. Reeling under the 
shock, the global economy, is beginning yet another transition, of redefinition or even a 
metamorphosis unheard and unseen ever in the past. It today stands at a crossroad, highly 
fluid, uncertain, but with a silver lining, of emerging economies coming centre stage but 
with a rider that they are not growing to their potential and their global competitiveness 
is decreasing rather than increasing. These economies have “opportunities but with stiff 
challenges.”
33.2 GLOBAL VILLAGE
While discussing the concept of globalization we had discussed the rapid global integration 
being driven by a number of factors, especially in the last two decades. We had talked of 
the seamless emergence of a global  village’  and transition of  the  global  economy from 
first polarized , and then multi-polarized  to the  present inter-dependence  no tbound by 
nationalities.
The growing inter-dependence amongst economies has a very important role to play 
in achieving the global integration. It is not the size of economies but interdependence 
which makes the integration a necessity. It is the shrinking of the global economy from 
an economic perspective. Goods and services of countries, increasingly becoming global, 
companies  going  global  with  multiple  locations,  multiple  markets,  not  identifiable  by 
countries of origin.
Integration is also about colour of money or their origin losing significance and driven 
by opportunities and markers rather titan by countries. We had also discussed previously 
about some ‘key facilitators’ of this integration in the section on Globalization. Very often 
both these terms are seen as meaning the same, but actually globalization is the ‘result’ of 
integration.
Yet another underlying factor facilitating the economic integration process is the silent 
financial sector integration across boundaries. This has been aided by leaping technology’ 
making it possible to do electronic trans-national transactions seamlessly, in the fastest 
possible manner.GLOBAL ECONOMY— A TRANSITION 319
Sitting  on  a  computer,  transactions  could  be  performed  anywhere  in  the  world 
without any physical movements. The global financial sector was reaching new frontiers 
of technology, services, convenience, diversified products and at the same time continued 
to expand and spread across geographies. Both the financial sector as well as the economic 
integration achieved over the last two decades had its own share of hiccups in the form of
crisis in different countries.
The crisis in Mexico, Chile, SE Asian economies, Argentina, etc., in the earlier decades, 
did slow down the integration process, but has survived so far. The era of post-90s has seen 
increasing  global  deregulation  of  trade,  capital inflows  and financial  regulations which 
has made this integration faster. It has also resulted in ‘coupling’ of economies or that 
problems of one country will seep through in the global arena. Smaller and peripheral 
economies having the potential to destabilize global economy, as it is being seen in the case 
of Portugal, Greece, Spain, etc.
This is the other side of integration of the relative inability of economies to be insulated 
from adverse global fall-outs, It is not possible for economies to remain as a ‘hermit 
economy’, decoupled from global developments.
Another important aspect of such an integration is also globalization of issues needing 
collective resolution at a global platform like G-20. However, the recent global crisis has 
the potential to threaten the basic foundation and fabric of global integration as will be 
discussed subsequently.

CHAPTER34
LESSONS FROM CRISES
IN OPEN ECONOMIES
GENESIS
Before talking about the global crisis it may be of merit to put together, in retrospect, the 
possible reasons, the myths around them and more importantly what could be the lessons 
for countries like India and also the other emerging economies. As an open economy, 
moving  towards  both  convertibility  as  well  as  market-determined  exchange  rates  are 
necessary, as a natural outcome, unidirectional but, slow, gradual and cautious and over a 
period of time.
However, these factors and openness of whether they being responsible  for crises in the 
recent paste specially,i n theei ghtiesan d ninetiesin c ountriessuch  asMex ico,Chile ,SEAs ian  
countries,Argen tinasoon a ftertheirop enin g up,cannot beconc lus ively said.
It can be said now that it was neither the openness, nor full convertibility nor market- 
determined exchange rates responsible for the crisis but:
(1)  An inappropriate combination of the manner in which exchange rate was determined 
and  convertible.  That  is,  a  pegged  exchange  rate  and  a  convertible  currency  are 
incompatible. That is, if there is full convertibility then the exchange rates should be 
market-determined (Thailand and Argentina).
(2)  Rushing into opening of the economy as the SE Asian economies allowing for all 
kinds of inflows, irrespective of their objective, short-term or long-term (all crises- 
ridden economies).
(3)  Absence of monitoring mechanism over critical parameters such as CAD and DSR 
(S. Korea and Mexico).
(4)  Lack of oversight on short-term inflows and their objective (Argentina).
(5)  Utilizing  short-term  inflows  for  long-term  uses  which  are  technically  flawed 
(Thailand).
(6)  And over-investment and absence of prudential norms on lending (S. Korea).
Key Fundamentals to Openness
To summarize, as an open economy what are the key fundamentals or lessons learnt from 
these crises?LESSONS FROM CRISES IN OPEN ECONOMIES 321
•  If there is full convertibility there should also be market-determined exchange rates.
•  There should be an oversight mechanism and not regulations on all inflows, their 
nature and objective, destination sector and also on the CAD and DSR levels.
•  Commercial and financial viability of projects and prudential norms of lending should 
never be compromised.
•  A robust financial sector having the ability to understand risk and have risk mitigants 
and sufficiency of own capital to be able to absorb the risk.
It is not about returning back to an inward-looking economy. There is still a larger 
picture, post-crisis, especially countries such as South East Asian economies, S. Korea, 
Russia,  Chile,  Argentina  and  Mexico,  having  all  bounced  back  attracting  overseas 
investment moving up the growth and income ladder. Their growth may have been dented 
in the wake of the global crisis but are now even more aggressive than before in their 
openness.
That is not to question the fundamentals of openness or of an open economy but to 
understand that future lies as an open economy, learn from their mistakes, put in checks 
and balances and pursue openness earnestly carving out separate niche for itself. Thar is, 
precisely what the Indian Government is presently doing. Even though China is said to 
be leader as an open economy but between China and India, India stands ahead on both 
these  counts  of  market-determined  exchange  rate  (even  though  managed)  and  moving 
towards a convertible currency.

CHAPTER35
GLOBAL FINANCIAL
MELTDOWN
DE-COUPLING THEORY
On a number of occasions previously, we have made a passing reference to ‘3116 Global 
Crisis’ as a crisis first ever, in economic history, ever outshadowing the ‘Great Depression 
of 1929-1933’, in terms of the potential wide ranging impact and ability to destabilize 
the global economy. The great depression also resulted in contraction of US output and 
resultant global output, leading to the widespread global unemployment. However, it was 
confined to the US and Europe.
The impact was little on Asian economies given their small size and most of them under 
the domain of the colonial rule, with little international stature, for any perceptible impact 
of the depression. Similarly, all the other crises were relatively confined to geographies and 
had brought forth the ‘decoupling  theory’ .Tha t it was possible for economics to insulate 
themselves from adverse fall-outs  in different  parts of the world or ability of economies to 
remain ‘de-coupled’.
The decoupling theory had worked during all the earlier crises but the theory was first 
tested during the oil shock of the seventies’, which had affected most economies of the 
world.
The  global  crisis  has  broken  this  myth,  that  in  the  present  era  of  integration  and 
globalization,  it  is  not  possible  for  economies  to  remain  decoupled  or  insulated  from 
adverse global developments. The degree of impact may vary but insulation is not possible. 
Thus, it got its name as a global crisis, also known as the ‘global meltdown’ or the ‘sub­
prime crisis’.
It is first, a financial sector crisis, gradually seeping through to other sectors of various 
economies. Financial sector globally is seen as the backbone of an economy on which 
other sectors are heavily dependent for their financial needs. In its strength lies the ability 
of economies to grow. Any crisis in the financial sector cannot be insulated from the rest 
of the economy.
In the earlier section on Global Integration, we had seen how financial integration had 
taken place and it was natural for the financial sector crisis to move across borders across 
different economies. The global financial institutions besides their spread across economies, 
over a period of time, had become complex, with new diversified risky products, operating 
on wafer thin margins, overleveraging and stretching the financial sector.GLOBAL FINANCIAL MELTDOWN 323
These institutions were not only spread wide but deep and so interwoven that it was 
impossible to track. A highly risky product of derivatives’ or something deriving value on 
the strength of an underlying asset (bubble) which can either be exchange rates, bonds, 
equities or commodities.
It is not the credit derivative which is the issue, but for its exposure extending multiple 
times the balance sheet of institutions, was a sure recipe for disaster, just waiting to happen, 
and required only a trigger point. It may be interesting to note that just before the crisis 
the derivative market was over USD 600 trillion or 11 times the global output during 
2007.
The top five banks of the US had combined assets of USD 4 trillion on a capital of USD 
200 billion, a leveraging of twenty-one times. While the exposure to the derivative market 
was leveraged by over 90 times! This is what overleveraging like an inverted pyramid, 
which can never be stable and can collapse with the slightest of disturbance.
The trigger point was default by the sub-prime borrowers of mortgage loans in the US, 
against which mortgage backed securities (MBS) were sold after being diced and sliced 
multiple times by the banks, investment bankers and other institutions spread as tentacles, 
inter-woven across the global financial system. So much so, it was not possible to track 
them down not even by the banks which had issued these securities.
As a result, this set of a chain reaction leading to overnight collapse of well-known large 
financial institutions such as The Lehman Brothers, AIG, Bear & Stearns, General Motors 
and closure of many established banks, crashing the stock markets thus earning the name 
of global meltdown. It is the complete decimation of international financial giants and 
collapse of the stock market, referred as the meltdown.
It is important to understand that the US and European Governments got to know of 
the collapse after’ the collapse and not ‘before’ the collapse and thus could not prevent the 
collapse ‘before’ the collapse. Since the beginning of the crisis as many as one hundred and 
fifty-seven banks have shut down in the US. It can be said that the crisis had its epicentre 
in the US but shivers went throughout the global economy.
Who are the sub-prime borrowers? It is that class of people who do not have the 
resources to service the loan taken or those borrowing for consumption purposes. But 
why  lend  to  them?  It  was  the  US  model  of  ‘consumption  -driven  growth.  More  the 
consumption,  greater  demand  for  goods  and  services  and  thus  there  would  be  greater 
production and output.
As a counter to the earlier slowdown of growth of their economy, US banks went for 
aggressive lending, reaching out to all, as they had the confidence that their financial sector 
would be able to balance it, by spreading the risk wide and through their complex range 
o fproducts.
So what could be the reason(s) for the crisis? Can we say it was the global financial 
integration, or lending to sub-prime borrowers or aggressive lending or a combination 
of all, which led to the crisis. They may have contributed their share but there were five 
excesses’. They are as follows:324 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(1)  Excess overleveraging.
(2)  Excess liquidity.
(3)  Excess complex products.
(4)  Excess confidence of the financial system.
(5)  Excessive greed of the financial system.
First is the highly overleveraged financial system something like an inverted pyramid, 
which is structurally unstable. Secondly, free financial markets and absence of regulations 
on  the  overleveraging  by  financial  institutions.  Thirdly,  overconfidence  of  international 
financial institutions of nothing can go wrong.
The sub-prime borrowers only precipitated the crisis, acted as a trigger point, but it 
was, like said earlier, a crisis only waiting to happen.
GLOBAL CRISIS AND INDIA
The global crisis took its toll on the US and Europe leading to a contraction of their 
output,  but  did  not  enter  the  recessionary  phase,  which  is  continuous  contraction  of 
output moret han two quarters.H owever,the fea rsofre ces sion haunted both the USan d Eu rope
.More t han th e contrac tion  ofoutput ,agreat er  concer n  was the inc reas ing  pace ofthe 
un emp loyment.
India had a higher degree of financial integration than trade integration with capital 
inflows bothi n currentas we llasc api talacco untmore than 1 00 percentoft heGD  P. Let usalso  
acce pt afactthatU S istoo  larg ean  e conomy t o beignored forthe iradverse fa llouts  by any  
econom y .Being thebigge st econom y  isthe biggest drive r of integrat ion  an d c oupling  of
 
economies.
The crisis did impact India as well as other Asian economies such as China with a 
‘slowdown’ in their growth but not contraction of output, in all these economies. The 
impact was there but less intense than that experienced by the US and European economies. 
As said previously, this was a financial sector crisis and the Indian financial system was less 
affected, given dominance of the public sector banks, which are less exposed to complex 
risk products, nor overleveraged, fairly risk averse and not much exposure to international 
markets and products.
What the crisis did to India was to push the domestic financial sector into a ‘cautious 
and wait and watch mode’, became averse to lending. It did impact some of the private 
and foreign banks in India but not to the same magnitude; as such exposures were limited 
and small in relation to their balance sheet size. This forced tightening of the liquidity 
by banks, self-imposed, in their own wisdom, dried up money with the industrial sector 
which in any case, had also gone in the cautious mode.
Both  these  resulted  in  build-up  of  inventories,  longer  production  and  repayment 
cycles  and  slowdown  of  industrial  and  overall  growth  of  the  Indian  economy.  It  can 
be said the banking sector was on the verge of witnessing defaults and build-up of bad 
loan  book,  both  which  could  have  compounded  the  problem  manifold  and  impact  far 
greater.GLOBAL FINANCIAL MELTDOWN 325
The financial sector was fortunate to have a limited impact in the sense that no bank 
or any financial institution collapsed. However, it did dent exports, as for the first time, 
in over a decade or so, there was contraction of exports. But this contraction was not 
sufficient, to contract overall output, given the relative low share of exports to total output 
of the Indian economy.
So  overall,  the  impact  on  India  was  that  it  put  in  the  minds  of  people  ‘fear  and 
uncertainty’, resulting in a slowdown and definitely impacting exports for a short period 
of six months. The impact and fallout could have been greater and deeper both for the 
world economy and India, but for ‘timely’ and ‘collective’ government interventions both 
in India as well as other major economies of US, EU and Japan.
COLLECTIVE INTERVENTION
A positive aspect post-global crisis has been the prompt and collective government level 
interventions unidirectional, which otherwise, was fraught with graver consequences, as 
mentioned previously, had the potential to surpass the agony of the great depression.
The  government  level  interventions  were  first,  avoiding  any  kind  of  panic  but  use 
collective wisdom. Secondly, at the government level itself, of that being ‘collective’ and 
‘consensus*  driven  unidirectional  intervention.  The  third,  being  of  its  distinction  made 
between direct and immediate, the other as indirect, in the medium-term and in the long­
term, addressing structural issues of the global financial system, to prevent their recurrences 
in future. Fourthly, interventions would be short-term, as a medicine but need addressing 
the issues of the global financial system collectively, as part of the larger reform package.
Depending on the impact level, different governments could choose on the immediate 
intervention either as bailout package’, which is providing government finances, capital 
infusion or as a ‘stimulus package’ driven around fiscal loosening. The US government 
resorted  to  bailout  packages  through  capital  infusion,  also  took  over  some  of  the 
institutions, relaxed its monetary stance by going for ‘quantitative easing’ and bringing 
down interest rates to near zero to revive growth and output of the US economy.
The  Indian  Government  on  the  other  hand  resorted  to  a  preventive-cum-stimulus 
measures like:
(1)  RBI allowing banks to restructure their loan accounts and reschedule loan installments, 
as a preventive measure to prevent build-up of bad loans.
(2)  It also went for quantitative easing by lowering CRR, to improve liquidity.
(3)  It advised banks to shed their risk averseness, as it was a problem not a solution, to 
the slowdown in the economy.
(4)  Fiscal measures as part of the stimulus package were, through rolling down excise 
duties and corporate tax rate to provide industrial sector necessary boost.
(5)  It also ran up a high fiscal deficit by increasing spending in the economy, even at 
the risk of inflationary pressures and compromising on the compulsions under the 
FRBMA. In fact, India ran theh ighestf iscald eficitin  thela st16  years.
(6)  As a fillip to exports concessions were extended and new strategies of incentives were 
given to diversify to Afro-Asian countries impacted lesser by the crisis.326 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
Overall, it was a combination of all which limited the impact, without the need for any 
bailout as no financial institution in India had collapsed. Can we say that impact on India 
was fairly limited because of the public sector character of Indian financial system, less 
exposed to global markets?
Many critics feel so that public sector dominated financial sector was the reason for the 
limited impact. However, as mentioned previously, it was the timely intervention by the 
RBI and the government, without which, it could have resulted in collapse of some of the 
smaller banks even in the public sector. Banking globally has elements of risk. Any lending 
will have risks. But the answer to that is nor to become risk averse.
The answer lies in growth and expansion by better risk assessment capabilities, risk 
diversification, have risk mitigants, understanding risk appetite and sufficient capital for 
the risk. The public sector character inherently has risk averseness and cautious approach, 
both of which are helpful in warding off crisis situations, but are also an impediment to 
expansion and growth of size of banks, so important in developing risk appetite.
That is why despite India’s status as the fourth largest in the world, does not have any 
bank in the top fifty banks of the world, under any parameter, except may be the number 
people employed. So the larger question is nor the ability to have withstood the global 
crisis and of having passed the test of time but what lies in future?
As India goes for deeper levels of integration, it would require mergers of banks to 
attain a critical mass and at some point will have to discard the public sector character, if 
it wants a few Indian large banks, actually becoming global banks and play a larger role in 
global financial system.
35.4 FUTURE OF GLOBALIZATION
Post-global crisis, besides raising uncertainties and unresolved issues has also questioned 
globalization in terms of whether the era is over or return to inward policies, which is the 
pre-globalization period. Even though there is a global consensus amongst G20 of the 
need for further trade as the best way going forward, there will be issues of the first being 
to reorient strategies especially by the major economies such as the US of the need for 
focus on innovations, building intellectual capabilities generating newer ideas, breaking 
technological barriers and going beyond the nuclear deals for restoring their growth and 
employment.
They will have to carve out a niche for themselves, different from that of India, China 
and other emerging economies who will always have competitive edge in cheap labour, 
acting as a magnet in attracting investments and exports to them. Reversal of these to 
the US will not be possible given the high wage cost in such economies nor can they be 
competitive in comparison to countries such as India and China for mass goods.
In the past also they have thrived on their higher intellectual skills. They have the base 
which is still evolving in India and China. Going back to the protectionist measures would 
be a retrograde step, harming interests alike as levels of economic integration today run very 
deep. It is also about understanding that expensive wages should be used not for mass goods, 
which can come cheap in any case from countries such as India and China, but upper end GLOBAL FINANCIAL MELTDOWN 327
technological  and innovative  products for use both in their economies as well as by the 
emerging economies.
This cannot happen in short-term but developing a consciousness and working in that 
directions may be a better option, rather than through quantitative easings (QEs) which is 
anti-gravity and would never flowing back in the US but finding their way in the emerging 
economics.
Globalization has given a new way for economies to go forward. Economic integration 
has  run  very  deep.  The  problem  of  the  global  economy  is  not  globalization  but  its 
perception. There is a definite take away for every economy. Present problems of today, 
like all other problems have to be understood in the right perspective and then resolved 
collectively. The crisis was not because of globalization and if so it is the biggest mistake or 
still a bigger blunder would be to revert back to protectionism in future.

CHAPTER36
OVERVIEW OF RECENT
CRISES SINCE 2008
US CRISIS 2008 AND 2011
The largest economy of the world went through two major crises in the recent time and 
the worst since the Great depression 1929-1933. The crisis of 2008 was a ‘financial sector 
crisis’, the genesis which was sowed in the inverted financial system, highly over leveraged, 
as  an  inverted  pyramid.  The  mechanism  of  the  overleveraging  was  through  complex 
financial derivative products (products deriving value from an underlying financial assets) 
which had excessive risk. Globalization of the financial system had happened even earlier 
to the economic globalization, resulting in a broad global financial architecture covering 
banks, investment banks, pension and insurance funds, housing finance companies, hedge 
funds all finely inter meshed with each other difficult to differentiate the financial products 
and the holders of such products. These products were traded over the counter’, outside 
the stock exchanges resulting in their being unregulated or any kind of supervision on 
their trading.
It was also driven by consumption-led growth especially through housing loans making 
it relatively easy for people to get mortgage backed loans which were then sliced and diced 
as multiple risky derivative products. This crisis has been covered in an earlier section as 
the Global meltdown or sub-prime crisis.
The US crisis of 2011 was a ‘fiscal crisis’, arising out of reckless fiscal spending over 
the pastd ecadew ith deficitto  GDPclim bing to doubledigit in les sthan a decade.  Thiswas 
due to co mpul sionsoftheUSof mou ntin g ex pend itureofsocialsecurity a nd  thecrisi sof2008 
only ma king m atte rsworse,in termsofrecession  and als o rising un emp loymentofoneofthe
highestin thehistory  ofU  S,re qui ring  increas ed spen ding beside smo netary easing.Atthe
sametime,taxesw ereneverreviewed  wit h tax  rates virtual ly unc hange d and  on thecontrary,
asarespo nseto thecrisisduring 2008,tax rat eswerelow ere d  forboostin g cons umptio n in an 
attemp tto revive growth .      
The fiscal crisis occurred when the US hit the ceiling of the overall level of debt of
USD 1 6.4  tr illion, which  meant that  defi cit  coul d  not be  sust ained  th rough   in creas ed  
borro wing as done in the past. F urthe r with  fears of bre ach ing the cap, there also arose
the likelihood  of a  defau lt as  bonds d ue for paym  en t could not b e don e thr ough more 
bor rowing,unless th ecap wa sra ised.                
       OVERVIEW OF RECENT CRISES SINCE 2008 329
This resulted in the first ever down grade of the US rating by Standard & Poor during 
2010. The Senate realizing the gravity of the problem passed a resolution of suspending 
the cap but with strict austerity measures in government spending and roll back of tax 
concessions given effective December 2012, resulting in a ‘fiscal cliff’, of the relative 
inability  of  the  government  to  reduce  spending  and  also  raise  taxes,  in  the  wake  of 
the  growing  un  employment  rates  and  marginal  growth  of  the  US  economy.  The  US 
government has to cut expenditure by USD 1.2 trillion over a 9-year period beginning 
December 2012. The fiscal crisis of the US has nor been resolved but only postponed and 
the fiscal cliff would resurface soon.
However, a silver lining has been a beginning of the revival of the US economy. This is 
evident in the Federal Reserve now considering withdrawing its quantitative easing (QE), 
that of not injecting liquidity, a sign of a revival of the US economy. It is difficult to say 
at this stage whether it will be end of the down turn of the US economy or whether there 
will be a double dip recession.
36.2 EURO ZONE CRISIS
Earlier, European Union represented one economic market as an economic union with free 
trade with each other. The Euro zone came into existence with the signing of Maastricht 
treaty signed during 1992, of a monetary union, one central bank and single currency, 
replacing country specific currencies in the European Union. As a result, the Euro as 
common  currency  came  into  existence  during  2002,  but  of  the  twenty-seven  member 
countries only, seventeen members of the EU accepted Euro as the common currency and 
became part of Euro Zone.
Some of the members not opting for Euro (10) especially Sweden, UK and Switzerland 
which while accepted Euro, also had their own respective currency and not part of the 
Euro zone even though part of European Union. There are six other countries which have 
Euro as their currency but are not part of the Euro zone resulting in twenty-three countries 
in the world having Euro as their currency with seventeen as part of Euro Zone.
The Euro zone had structural problems ever since it came into existence. They are as 
follows:
(1)  Of a union of dissimilar economies, difference in sizes, economic activities, resources, 
technology and levels of development and incomes. On the one hand, the stronger 
economies of Germany, France and Italy and the other ‘peripheral economies’ such as 
Greece, Portugal, Spain, etc.
(2)  Some of the Euro zone member had strong currency before Euro came into existence 
such as Deutsche Marks (Germany), French Francs and the Italian Lira, while other 
had a weak currency such as Greece (Drachma), Portugal (Escudo) and Spain (Peseta). 
Thus, monetary union was not across similar monetary strengths of economies.330 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(3)  The larger economies especially Germany had a current account surplus while others 
had a current account deficit largely with Germany.
(4)  There was a growth with stability pact’ amongst Euro zone members which was more 
of an understanding rather than a ‘fiscal union’ of debt to GDP not exceeding 60 per 
cent and deficit to GDP of not exceeding 3 per cent, which was never adhered to by 
the member countries resulting in ‘fiscal excesses’, high levels of deficits resulting in 
large borrowings especially by what is referred as PIGS economies, which comprises 
of Portugal, Ireland, Greece and Spain.
The Euro zone crisis is a sovereign debt crisis’ as it is government debt outside the country.
CYPRUS CRISIS
The crisis Cyprus is a ‘banking sector crisis’, with volume of business many multiple of 
its GDP, unregulated, high exposure to Greek bonds almost resulting in collapse of the 
second largest bank necessitating a bail out by European central bank.
36.4 GREECE DEBT CRISIS
The Greek debt crisis is the dangerous amount of sovereign debt the Greek government 
owes. It became hazardous when a possible debt default threatened the European Union.
Since 2008, EU leaders have struggled to agree on a solution. During that time, the 
Greek economy shrank 25 percent thanks to spending cuts and tax increases demanded by 
creditors. Greece’s debt-to-GDP ratio grew to 179 percent.
The disagreement is a matter of which countries lose out more. Greece wants the EU 
to forgive some of the debt. Since February 2015, the various European authorities and 
private investors have loaned Greece $294.7 billion euros. Greece has only repaid 41.6 
billion euros.
The crisis triggered the eurozone debt crisis and created fears of a global financial crisis. 
It threw into question the viability of the eurozone itself. It warned of what could happen 
to other heavily indebted EU members.
Greece Crisis Explained
In 2009, Greece announced its budget deficit would be 12.9 percent of its gross domestic 
product. That’s more than four times the EU’s 3 percent limit. Rating agencies Fitch, 
Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s lowered Greece’s credit ratings. That scared off investors. 
It also drove up the cost of future loans. Greece didn’t have a good chance of finding the 
funds to repay its debt.
The EU and the IMF provided 240 billion euros in emergency funds in return for 
austerity measures. The EU had no choice but to stand behind its member by funding a 
bailout. Otherwise, it would face the consequences of Greece either leaving the eurozone 
or defaulting.OVERVIEW OF RECENT CRISES SINCE 2008 331
Austerity measures required Greece to increase the VAT tax and the corporate tax 
rate. It must close tax loopholes and reduce evasion. It should reduce incentives for early 
retirement. It has to raise worker contributions to the pension system. A significant change 
is the privatization  of many  Greek  businesses, including  electricity  transmission. That 
reduces the power of socialist parties and unions.
On January 15, 2018, the Greek parliament agreed on new austerity measures. It needs 
to qualify for the next round of bailout payments. On January 22, the eurozone finance 
ministers are expected to approve 6 billion to 7 billion euros. The new measures make 
it more difficult for unions to strike. The country is often paralyzed by strikes. It helps 
banks reduce bad debt, opens up the energy and pharmacy markets, and recalculates child 
benefits. The bailout program is scheduled to end in August, 2018. Greece’s unemployment 
rate has fallen to 20 percent from more than 25 percent in 2013. Its economy grew 2.5 
percent, compared to an almost 10 percent contraction in 2011. It expects to repay at least 
75 percent of its debt by 2060. Until then, European creditors will supervise adherence to 
austerity measures.
36.5 BREXIT
Brexit is an abbreviation for “British exit,” referring to the U.K.S decision to leave the 
European Union (EU). The decision defied expectations and roiled global markets, and 
caused the British pound to fall to its lowest level against the dollar in 30 years sending 
ripples across the globe.

CHAPTER37
GLOBAL CONSENSUS -­
 
GOING FORWARD
POST CRISIS
Any crisis having global implications should and rightfully be driven by consensus  across 
major economiesn oton ly in termsoft he k inds ofinte rve ntion butalso in  termsofconsen sus 
on the wa y going   forward .First thin g in  going forward ,isto rev ie w the dam age  control 
interven tions,in term softheir effe ctive ness ofhaving  ar rested’freefallso fou tputc on traction  
and unemployment.
It  is  equally  imperative  to  understand  that  things  have  to  be  seen  from  a  global 
perspective rather than the country perspective. Hie next would be to keep in mind that 
recovery of economies is going to be slow, long-term and more importantly ‘uneven’.
It also needs to be understood that stimulus and bailout packages should be seen as 
short-term and withdrawable, but replaced with sustained long-term reforms. Accordingly, 
withdrawing of the interventions should be well thought out, staggered and again done 
collectively or could facilitate fears of double-dip recession.
More than the recovery, the nature of recovery would not be like the alphabet W but 
U-shaped with the bottom more elongated, which is the reflection of a longer time period 
and no sudden spurts of growth. Despite the slow process, the way going forward is not 
to restrict trade or return to neo-protectionism but on the contrary increased trade across 
countries as a way for economies to expand.
The crisis should not be seen as the collapse of the free market economy and larger 
role for the respective states in both acting as a producer or a regulator both. It is not to 
bring back the public sector or regulations but to continue with the market mechanism. 
It should not be seen as a market failure or question the merits of the market mechanism, 
but to bring in awareness in the markets about the following:
(1)  Of  their  larger  role  and  responsibility  which  is  freedom  to  do  business,  but not 
compromising on the moral ethics of businesses.
(2)  The desire for expansion and growth can be passions of businesses, but not greed.
(3)  They also have societal and responsibilities to their nation.
(4)  The interest of the people can and should never be compromised.GLOBAL CONSENSUS—GOING FORWARD 333
At the government level too, there will have to be a greater inter-government monetary 
cooperation and also at the apex central bank level. At a still broader level, there would 
be a need to have ‘better global supervision and not regulations over the global financial 
system’. Finally, the need for the good collective leadership is to provide good governance 
and also to lead both at the same time.
The way going forward has a larger role for the governments of the US, EU, Japan, 
India  and  China  for  resurrection  of  the global  economies  as  fundamental  and primary 
objective. That is, economics dominating politics and setting aside political differences.
However, the most important in going forward lies in understanding, the importance 
of trade, not return of neo-protectionism, in these troubled times. Multilateral trade could 
have never ever been in economic history, as relevant, as it is today for revival of the 
economies.
37.2 STRUCTURAL ISSUES
The way going forward for greater strength to the global financial system would require 
addressing the structural issues such as:
(1)  The bankers committee for banking supervision (BCBS) as a part of basel international 
settlement (BIS) will have to implement Basel III accord, which should aim at better 
risk assessment capabilities of global banks, define risk appetite and have sufficient 
own funds.
It  should  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  strengthening  would  require  capital 
infusion.
Sufficient time should be given like in the previous accords for smooth transition 
of banks in different countries to Basel III.
(2)  The role of the IMF would need to re-structured to play the role of prevention rather 
than providing cure. They will also have to play a larger role in global supervision to 
provide the oversight mechanism to the global financial system.
There should be greater clarity in the proposed financial stability board (FSB) in 
terms ofi tsro lean dpro videinde pendenceto th em onet aryauthori tiesindiffer ent countries 
topursue ind epende ntmonetary policies.  
(3)  Evolving a global code of ethics to provide broad financial discipline such as prudential 
norms of lending, exposure norms for banks in different economies to follow.
(4)  The need for a transparent and fair multilateral trading platform like the WTO can 
never be more than now. It is in the interest of all economies to put their heads 
together in evolving a consensus at WTO not only for their own interest but for also 
long-term sustainability of the global economy.

CHAPTER38
GLOBAL UNRESOLVED
ISSUES
38.1 UNADDRESSED ISSUES
There are still a number of global unresolved issues, first being the absence of consensus at 
the WTO or in the inability to push through conclusion of the Doha round of negotiations 
which  will  be  discussed  in  the  next  section.  There  are  still  other  issues,  potentially 
destabilizing in nature, which would need an early addressing and early resolutions such as:
(1)  The issue of the continuation of‘USD as an international reserve currency’. In the 
wake of crisis, many critics have favoured a neutral currency like the SDR as an 
international reserve currency
If that happens, it may completely destabilize the US Economy and may lead to 
grave economic fallouts.
Any reserve currency will require it to be a currency in circulation for settling 
transactions, completely convertible, backed by a strong and large economy, globally 
acceptable and market-determined. All of which presently is satisfied only by the 
USD.
The issue of switching to some other currency should not arise as the problem 
is not with the currency but with US economy, as USD continues to be a strong 
currency and widely acceptable.
An unbiased collective view, putting to rest all speculations, would have to be 
taken in the global’ interest for global stability.
(2)  Hie future of Euro as a unified currency of the Euro zone has begun to show signs 
             
ofcracking up especially with therecentcrisisin Greece,Spain,Portugal,Ireland orthe
               
PIGSEconomy which arenotonly destabilizing Euro zonebutalso smaller economies
           
having thecapabilitiesto destabilizetheglobaleconomy.
                 
The Euro  has raised  a number of fundamental questions of compatibility  of
             
smaller and larger economies, differential growth, differences in sectoral contribution 
                 
of output, labour immobility, high  levels of unsustainable deficits and  different
   
strategiesforgrowth.
                     
Whether Euro will survive or disintegrate is a big question mark? This will decide
         
whetherunified currency agood option oralimitation in theEuro zone.
                     
(3) The ‘quantitative easing’ (QE) by the US of lowering reserves ratio to near zero first
                 
and then purchaseofUSsecuritiesfromthemarketreferred to asQEround 2,GLOBAL UNRESOLVED ISSUES 335
is leading to surge in inflows into emerging economies of the world, resulting in 
appreciating currencies, leading to ‘currency war’ situation with each economy trying 
to protect their respective currencies.
This would threaten the relevance of market-determined exchange rates. 
This is also a dangerous proposition, as it fuels ‘carry trades’, which is money being 
utilized for earning higher returns in the emerging economies.
This could be destabilizing both for the US and emerging economies.
(4)  With  China  becoming  the  second  largest  economy  of  the  world  and  increased 
contribution  to  world  trade,  their  reluctance  to  discontinue  with  their  ‘pegged 
exchange rates’, would only distort world trade in future.
(5)  There is a larger crisis in the making again epicentred in the US, which is credit 
card or plastic money becoming the preferred mode of transactions. The credit card 
market in the US is many more USD trillions.
It leverages spending beyond one’s means and a default similar to the sub-prime 
borrowers, can again potentially paralyze the financial system.
If the sub-prime borrowers were a USD 1.3 trillion market the credit card is more 
than double the market of around USD 3 trillion.
Can one fathom the fallouts of defaults in credit cards?
(6)  The  ageing  workforce  in  countries  such  as  US,  Europe,  Japan  and  others  have 
grave fiscal implications of increased social security pension liabilities, representing 
unfunded public liabilities, have seeds of fiscal crisis as that seen in Greece and 
Ireland.
(7)  Already the debt level of the US is over 100 per cent of its GDP, similarly for UK 
and the other European economies. Can such high levels of debt be sustainable in 
the long run? Probably, the emerging economies including India are fortunate that 
their debt levels though high but have not reached the levels seen in the US and other 
economies.
Clearly as said earlier, the global economy today is at crossroads, uncertain, highly 
fluid, with lots of question marks.
However, two things can be said with certainty, one that the emerging economies 
would increasingly play a very important role in reshaping the global economy and 
two that in multilateral trading lies the future.
Yet a recent disturbing trend is signs of recovery in the US and Europe is adversely 
affecting emerging economies with India included. While QE in the US was largely 
responsible for currencies in these economies appreciating, the reverse is happening. 
Withdrawal of QE or abandoning loose monetary stance has contributed to reversal 
of inflows in emerging economies resulting in their currency depreciating.
First the worry was global recovery and now the fall out of recovery in bigger 
economies has become a cause of concern. The concerns of economics like India 
are genuine and thus withdrawal of QE has to be gradual, not coming in the way of 
recovery and also not destabilizing emerging economies like India.

CHAPTER39
WORLD TRADE
ORGANIZATION (WTO)-—
ISSUES AND INDIA
39.1 GATT AND WTO
The transformation of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT) to World 
Trade Organization (WTO) is truly historic and a landmark in economic history. It lays 
down transparent basis of orderly world trade, and the first attempt of an evolutionary 
multilateral trading platform, cutting across countries aimed at improved global trade and 
welfare gains for countries.
It is broader than GATT both in terms of coverage of areas, extending beyond tariffs 
and  non-tariffs  to  covering  all  trade-related  issues,  across  one  hundred  and  fifty-odd 
countries. More than two-third are developing or emerging markets economies. The rapid 
integration of the global economy, increased inter-dependence and larger dependence on 
trade required, developing such a platform.
The task of arriving at a consensus across multiple areas around so many countries 
was always a challenge  and can never  be easy. In the last two decades ,there  has been 
               
considerableprogressespecially in theelimination ofnon-tariffbarriers(NTBs) to trade,broad 
             
levelconsensuson intellectualproperty rights(TRIPS),investmentmeasures(TRIMS),setting 
               
up ofthedisputesettlementboard (DSB)forresolution oftrade-related disputes,etc.
The W  TO has made possible the global trade increasing by over 150 per cent since
                       
1990. However, where has it got stuck? It has got stuck in the market access initiatives
(MAI) . That is, market  acc ess  for  goods  an d s ervic es across co untries d ivided  into three 
                     
broad categories of
•  Agriculture.
•  Non-agriculture market access (NAMA).
•  General agreement of trade in services (GATS).
The  issues  of  market  access  in  agriculture  was  addressed  in  the  Uruguay  Round  of 
negotiations  but  more  comprehensively  covering  all  the  areas  at  the  Doha  Round  of 
negotiations. The initial deadline of conclusion of the Doha Round was fixed as 1 January 
2005 which was missed and so was the second unofficial deadline of December 2006, 
and all subsequent deadlines were also missed. There has been no progress so far and the 
stalemate continues. There is a broad consensus on the need for a transparent multilateral WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (WTO)—ISSUES AND INDIA 337
trading but only a macro level understanding and not beyond in terms of what needs to be 
done to achieve this objective. The global crisis did distract attention with every economy 
trying to get back on their respective growth path.
What are the stumbling blocks to the conclusion of the Doha Round of negotiations? 
The bone of contention is between the US, Europe and Japan on one hand; and India, China 
and others, on the other hand not able to arrive at a consensus on the modus operandi of 
opening the agriculture and industrial sector.
Specifically, what are the issues in agriculture? They are addressed below:
(1)  Special  Products  (SP)—it  is  broadly  agreed  that  there  would  be  a  category  of 
agriculture products, of livelihood concerns, over which there would be no reduction 
in tariffs.
(a)  It is not the category but inclusion of many agricultural goods by India and 
others which is not agreeable by the developed countries.
(b)  Given the  large  agrarian base o f e conomies o f C  hina, I ndia a nd Brazil, r ollback 
of tariff lines may have adverse implications.
(c)  India has about 700 tariff lines in agriculture and not more than 2 per cent 
would be covered as SP. There is a definite need for getting more agricultural 
goods under SP category.
(d)  While India and others may require hard pushing, but it should also realize 
that the rollback will be gradual and over a time frame allowing the agricultural 
sector for sufficient time to adjust to the rollback.
(e)  The other issue is that the present levels of tariffs in India are over 100 per cent. 
Protection is fine but over-protection gives rise to complacency, leading to high 
costs of production, not allowing for improvements in productivity.
(f)  India’s agricultural sector needs improved productivity, adoption of scientific 
farming, intensified research and development and protection is merely doing
the reverse.
(g) Further,  over-protection  has  neither  resulted  in  betterment  of  the  millions  of 
farmers,  living  at  subsistence  levels.  Lowering  protection  levels cannot make 
them worse off that what they are presently.
(h) The policy-makers need greater maturity, a broader picture in mind at the 
negotiation table, of increased trade in the agricultural sector which will, 
eventually result in economic betterment.
(i) If this is resulting in stalemate, a way can be found around by all moving a bit, 
from their stand. Remaining adamant or stuck is not wisdom and not the way 
going forward.
Special  Safeguards  Mechanisms  (SSM)—this  is  a  mechanism  at  the  WTO 
admissible to those countries which are net importers of food, of their ability to block 
imports in adverse circumstances, as may be decided by the countries.
India wants this mechanism to be also made applicable to it. This provision is 
for the weak economies and not for countries like India which are not in the same 
league, with self-sufficiency in food grains and not an importer of food grains except 
in exceptional circumstances.338 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(3)  Export Subsidies—these are the subsidies given for exports of agricultural goods by 
the developed countries.
There is a broad consensus amongst the developed countries for their phase out 
over a period of time. It is not an issue with India as there are no export subsidies on 
goods being exported from India.
(4)  Aggregate  Measures  of  Support  (AMS)—this  represents  domestic  subsidies  given 
to the agricultural sector and is characterized first, by the ‘De Minimis rule’ which is 
the total AMS including a specific commodity support only if it equals more than 5 
per cent of its value of production.
(a)  In  addition,  included  are  the  various  boxes  of  subsidy  such  as  green 
box’ subsidy given for livelihood and environmental concerns; ‘blue box’ subsidy, 
given to limit production of certain crops and ‘amber box’ subsidy given to 
expand output of certain crops.
(b)  There is a broad consensus on the green box subsidy and on their continuation. 
However, the problem is in the other subsidies, and the ability of the developed 
countries to move them over, not allowing for perceptible rollback.
(c)  As far as India is concerned, all the subsidies being given are green box subsidies 
not requiring any rollback. The problem with the developed countries is passing 
these subsidies in these boxes to avoid their roll back, which is trade distorting 
in nature.
(d)  The problem lies here with the developed countries and this where they will 
need to forward if they want to break the impasse.
(5)  Sanitary and Phyto Sanitary Conditions (SPS)—these are the conditions imposed 
on agricultural goods of adhering to norms of sanitation, hygiene, use of child labour, 
etc., before entering countries.
(a)  These  conditions  are  not  transparent  and  discriminatory  in  nature  affecting 
trade of such goods.
(b)  India’s stand is not against SPS conditions per se, but that they should be more 
transparent, uniform and non-discriminatory in nature.
(c)  It can thus be seen there are thorny issues in agriculture and why it is difficult 
to arrive at a consensus on these issues, bur conclusion of the Doha Round may 
not be possible without consensus on agriculture.
Issues in Non-agriculture Market Access (NAMA)
Non-agriculture market access is slightly less contentious than agriculture, but still there 
are certain broad areas which require consensus and they are as follows:
(1)  Less Than Full Reciprocity (LTFR) —this is basically a broad agreement that the 
rollback of Tariffs on non-agricultural goods, by the developing countries would be 
lesser than the developed countries and over a longer time frame.
(2)  There is absence of consensus on the formula of reduction of tariffs across product 
lines. The earlier Swiss formula of higher the tariff higher the reduction was not 
acceptable to the developing countries.WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (WTO)—ISSUES AND INDIA 339
What about trade in services? Broadly, India is agreeable in principle for trade in services 
addressing the four modes.
Mode 1—neither the service provider nor the service seeker physically moves from their 
respective countries but services gets rendered. Examples of this are the call centres, 
BPOs (business process outsourcing), KPOs (knowledge process outsourcing), LPOs 
(legal processes outsourcing), and MTO (medical transcription outsourcing).
Mode 2—physical movement of the service provider or service seeker for rendering services 
but not permanent commercial interest. For example, a doctor overseas visiting India 
for attending a patient or vice versa.
Mode 3—same as Mode 2 except that permanent movement for commercial purposes like 
foreign university directly setting up a college in India.
Mode 4—this is where India’s interest lies of free movement of people across geographies 
for purposes of employment.
The above is how broadly WTO is presently placed or is in a state of ‘pause’ over the last 
few years, as forcing a consensus at WTO, before the crisis, was not seen as an imperative 
especially by the larger economies like the US. However, post-crisis, things have changed 
and multilateral trade, seen as theo nly way,t o pullo ute conomiesfr omth eirre cessionary phase
A lot would depend how all the countries look at the next round of negotiations? 
However, definitely it will not be with the earlier eyes. There are quite a few things to learn 
from the past rounds of negotiations and would be useful in going forward in building 
the consensus.
•  It is a macro platform of negotiations and every country should look at long-term 
overall benefits rather than a particular sector.
•  It should look at the extent of opportunities opened up for trade.
•  In the past, ‘nothing was agreed till everything was agreed’. This approach makes the 
process only more cumbersome and requiring longer time frame.
•  There is a need to segregate contentious and non-contentious issues, group them and 
have separate sub-committees to address them.
•  The overall approach should not be seen as a bargaining strength for a group but in 
the larger interests of ‘fair for all’, helpful in promoting an orderly global multilateral 
trading platform.
The need for WTO and multilateral trading can never have been more acute, than the 
present, and it will be a global wisdom to see an early breakthrough and early conclusion 
of the Doha Round, to enable rebuilding the global economy far stronger with greater 
integration.PART
D
INDIAN ECONOMY REVISITED, 
OUTLOOK AND CHALLENGES

CHAPTER40
INDIA’S EFFORTS TOWARDS 
ECONOMIC REFORMS
40.1 ECONOMIC REFORMS ENCAPSULATED
We had seen India in three different perspectives: first—domestic, second—external and 
third—global perspective. There is a need to integrate all the perspectives to see the Indian 
outlook in view of the rapidly changing global environment, into the future, tasks ahead 
and the challenges before  the economy .However ,first ,w e also  need  to  take  stock  of the  
economic reforms ofth ela sttw odec ades,whic hhave beend iscus sed,butins epar ate sections, 
beingmu lti-sec toralinnature.   
As we had discussed the global transition, post-independence, the economic reforms 
of 1991 can be said to be transition towards a newer India, shift in the outlook and a 
different  orientation  from  the  previous  inward-looking  to  outward-looking.  It  is  also  a 
reflection of the mood of the government of greater faith in the market and private players 
and their larger role in the economy. Here, an attempt is being made to provide a holistic 
and comprehensive review of the economic reforms initiated since 1991.
Even though it is widely believed that 1991 was the beginning of reforms in India, 
reforms dare back to previous years. However, these were piece meal, specific and micro­
oriented and were witnessed more as changes’ rather than reforms. The policy of 1991 
marked the character of changes’ changing to ‘reforms’, reflecting a distinct priority and 
documented as a policy not done earlier.
The other aspect of the reform is that they were largely initiated by the BOP crisis, 
                             
necessitatingpledgingofgoldbyIndiaandthe resultantloanfromtheIMF,whichhasledtothe
                             
initiationofeconomicreformsof1991.Economicreformsaretheprocess,thecommencementof
                           
ajourneyandisacontinuousprocess,shiftinggearsandmovingtonextlevelsinthejourney.As
                               
aneconomy,thisjourney cannever endandneither canreform.There canbeaslowdown,a
                            
pause,buteventuallywouldhavetoberesumedagain.
   
40.2 FIRST-AND-SECONDGENERATIONREFORMS
                         
Though reforms are generic but governments for their own understanding prefer to use
                   
terminologies ‘first-and-second generation reforms’. First generation reforms are the first
                       
level, central government-driven, directed at addressing the cause of the crisis, structural
                         
rigidities in different product markets such as industrial, trade and financial sectors of
                           
economies. These are also those which can be implemented with relative ease, through an
                 
administrativeorderofthegovernmentandquicktodeliverresults.344 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
The  additional  reforms  conceived  and  implemented  to  achieve  a  faster  growth 
rate  and  address  other  economic  problems  of  poverty,  unemployment,  etc.,  are  called 
‘Second Generation Reforms’. These reforms run deeper into the economy beyond the 
product markets, requiring involvement of the state governments and broad level consensus 
across political parties. These are also time-consuming as they may require amendments 
and changes in many legislations and various acts. The second generation reforms are 
development  driven.  They  aim  at  achieving  faster  economic  development.  They  are 
the  lasting  solution  of various economic ills affecting India’s economy in the shortest 
possible  time.  The  pinpointed  focus  of  second  generation  reforms  are  on  the  below 
mentioned areas:
□  Policies to remove poverty and empowerment of the poor and weaker sections of 
society.
□  Policies  to  enhance  employment  opportunities  and  social  security  for  the  poor 
people.
□  Social  sector  reforms  to  strengthen  social  infrastructure  such  as  development  of 
knowledge,  skills,  efficiency  through  increased  emphasis  on  eduction,  health  and 
housing facilities, improvement in water supply and sanitation, etc.
□  Further fiscal consolidation, reduction in fiscal deficit through increased tax and 
non-tax  revenues  and  reduction  in  expenditure  by  minimizing  unproductive 
expenditure and cutting down subsidies.
□  Reducing fiscal deficit to 3 per cent of GDP for the Central Government and 2 
per cent for states.
□  Achieving zero revenue deficit.
□  Raising  capital  expenditure  on  rural  infrastructure  with  a  view  to  stimulating 
agricultural growth and rural development.
□  Continuing  and  carrying  forward  programme  of  disinvestment  of  loss-making 
public sector enterprises.
□  Abolishing  subsidies  on  all  non-merit  goods  and  eliminate  hidden  subsidies 
benefiting better off sections of society.
□  Reforming labour laws.
The main distinction between the two lies in their priority and ability to implement 
and  deliver  with ease. They are not sequential and can be undertaken simultaneously. 
It depends on how critical they are and the general levels of acceptability within the 
government and the political system.
40.3 REVIEW OF ECONOMIC REFORMS IN INDIA
Most of the reforms in India since 1991 are broadly first-generation reforms, across various 
sectors, except some which could be characterized as second-generation, but more focused 
on  first-generation  reforms.  They  have  been  central  government-driven  in  their  area 
of domain. They have been discussed sector-wise in the previous sections, but are being 
revisited, co facilitate a greater cohesive comprehension.
Industrial sector reforms are as follows:
(1)  The industrial policy of 1991 also known as the policy of liberalization marked the 
dismantling of the industrial licensing system, larger role for the private sector and
move towardsa competitive environment.TWO DECADES OF ECONOMIC REFORMS—INDI A 345
(2) Thisha sallo wed the expa nsion ofthepri vate sector,g reaterm aturity  and theirpresencein  
allsector softhe  econom y  inclu ding coreindustries such  asoil,pow erand o ther critical 
industries .  
(3)  (here has been diversification of the industrial base with a large number of industrial 
goods being produced.
(4)  The  public  and  private  sector  are  now  operating  in  a  competitive  environment 
bringing out the mixed economy character very clearly.
(5)  The private sector post-reforms have helped to increase the industrial growth and 
lifted the overall plane of economic growth.
(6)  The  private  sector  has  gone  aggressively  for  global  acquisitions  helping  them  to 
emerge as global players in the international market. For example, Tata-Corus Jaguar, 
TCS, Videocon, ONGC, etc.
(7)  Public sector also has been given greater autonomy for operational flexibility in the 
competitive environment.
It has led to establishing India as a market economy with pricing of most industrial 
goods as market-determined, except for certain petro goods.
The increased production of private sector and their growth in the last two decades has 
been impressive leading to higher growth and also increased overall investments in the 
economy which will make a 10 per cent overall growth, a reality, in the not too distant 
future.
Financial Sector Reforms
The financial sector reforms in the banking sector was largely driven by the ‘Narasimham 
Committee’ recommendations which allowed for liberal entry of private and foreign banks 
letting for greater competition, diversified products and vastly improved services. Major areas 
of reform in the banking sector were as follows:
(1)  Liberal entry of private sector and foreign banks. It is as part of the reforms that today 
there arc also private sector banks operating along with the public sector banks.
(2)  Public sector was given greater autonomy to function in a competitive environment 
and frame-independent policies based on broad framework provided by RBI.
(3)  Interest rates both the deposits as well as advances were deregulated and each bank 
was free to decide on the interest rates it chose to offer.
(4)  Similarly, in respect of lending rates while banks were free to decide on the interest 
rate they would charge, they had to publish the lowest rate of interest. They would 
charge to their best clients known as the benchmarked prime lending rate (BPLR).
More recently during 2010, RBI has asked the banks to adopt the base rate of 
interest, and that no lending would be done by banks below their respective published 
base rate of interest.
(5)  Banking was made more transparent, stress on full disclosure of both the good as well 
as bad assets.
(6)  There was standardization and uniform income recognition, asset classification and 
provisioning norms for the banking sector.
For the first time, a uniform definition was given to non-performing assets (NPAs) 
known as the 90 days norms. Thus, interest on loans given if not received within the 
stipulated time period would need to be classified as an NPA.346 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(7)  Realizing  that  banking  is  risky  business  having  normal  risks  in  lending  and  to 
safeguard interest banks were required to adhere to ‘capital adequacy’ norms in terms 
of international best practices (more about this later in this section).
The overall objective was to bring in greater competition in the banking sector by allowing 
for  better  products  and  improved  services  and  fine-tuned  interest  rates  to  support  the 
financial needs of a growing economy like India and enable bigger banks in India to 
emerge as global banks. Insurance-sector reforms were driven by the ‘Malhotra Committee’ 
recommendations  which,  for  the  first  time  opened  the  insurance  sector,  even  though 
partially, to the private sector, from the complete government-dominated insurance sector.
The  insurance  sector  has  been  opened  up  100  per  cent  for  the  private  sector  but 
restricted to 26 per cent equity participation for foreign insurance companies. Post-reforms 
a large number of insurance companies in the private sector have become operational in 
the country.
Tax Reforms
One of the major aspects of reforms has been in the areas of taxation of moving to a 
Value-added Tax (VAT) system and conversion of the sales tax regime into homogenized 
state VAT. A still far ambitious reform which will provide for an efficient indirect tax 
regime is moving to a uniform goods and services tax (GST). Similarly, the direct tax code 
once made operational would considerably simplify the direct tax system providing for far 
greater tax compliance.
Trade Sector Reforms
However, the most profound impact has been through the trade sector reforms, an integral 
part of economic reforms much wider in nature.
(a)  These reforms has given the clear signal of opening the economy and larger role for 
exports, capital flows and a competitive, efficient and productive domestic economy.
(b)  More specifically, reforms covered moving towards a market-determined exchange
rate,  replacing  FERA  with  FEMA,  current  account  convertibility  and  fairly  open 
capital account and liberalized external commercial borrowings by the private sector.
(c)  It also liberalized the foreign investment policy to attract foreign investment and 
eased restrictions on capital inflows.
(d)  These measures have been largely responsible for increasing exports and increased 
share in global trade of goods and services.
(e)  The external transactions arc now over 100 per cent of the GDP, built-up foreign 
exchange reserves providing an import cover of over 7 months as against barely seven 
days during 1991.
However, the most notable aspect of reforms has been the fact, that not only India got 
out of the crisis, not only repaid but prepaid its liabilities to the IMF and has turned as 
a ‘lender from a borrower’ to the IMF. It has earned the status of an emerging economy, 
changed the global perspective of India and now having a larger say in global matters. It TWO DECADES OF ECONOMIC REFORMS—INDI A 347
has emerged as the second fastest growing economy of the world after China, in a short 
time of just about two decades.
Labour Reforms.
Along with bringing transparency and accountability in enforcement of Labour Laws, the 
Government has taken various initiatives to realize and establish the dignity of every worker 
through provision of social security, enhancing the avenues and quality of employment 
along with industrial development. Recent major reforms are:
Introduction  of  Labour  Codes:  In  line  with  recommendations  of  Second  National 
Commission on Labour, the Government has taken steps for formulating of four Labour 
Codes on (i) Wages; (ii) Industrial Relations; (iii) Social Security & Welfare; and (iv) 
Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions by amalgamating, simplifying, and 
rationalizing the relevant provisions of the existing Central Labour Laws.
Launching of Shram Suvidha Portal: The Government has developed a unified Web 
Portal ‘Shram Suvidha Portal’, to bring transparency and accountability in enforcement of 
labour laws and ease complexity of compliance.
Maternity  Benefit  (Amendment)  Act,  2017  which  came  into  force  from  1st  April 
2017: Increased paid maternity leave from 12 weeks to 26 weeks and has benefited 18 
Lakh women employees. Recently Government proposed to bear 7 weeks of salary to 
motivate employers. 'This policy will be finalised after approval by the competent forum.
Maternity  Benefit  (Amendment)  Act,  2017  which  came  into  force  from  1st  April 
2017: Increased paid maternity leave from 12 weeks to 26 weeks and has benefited 18 
Lakh women employees. Recently Government proposed to bear 7 weeks of salary to 
motivate employers. This policy will be finalised after approval by the competent forum.
'The  Payment  of  Gratuity  (Amendment)  Bill,  2018  passed  by  Lok  Sabha  on  15th 
March, 2018 and by the Rajya Sabha on 22nd March, 2018, has been brought in force on 
29th March, 2018. The present upper ceiling on gratuity amount under the Act has been 
raised from Rs. 10 Lakh, to Rs. 20 Lakhs.
Atal  BimitVyakti  Kalyan  Yojana:  Considering  the  change  in  employment  pattern 
and  the  current  scenario  of  employment  in  India  which  has  transformed  from  a  long 
term employment to short term engagement in form of contract and temping, the ESI 
Corporation has approved a Scheme named “ATAL BIMITVYAKTI KALYAN YOJANA” 
for Insured Persons (IPs) covered under the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948. This 
scheme is a relief payable in cash directly to their Bank Account in case of unemployment 
and while they search for new engagement.
“UMANG:  ESIC  -  Chinta  Se  Mukti”  Mobile  App:  IP  centric  information  services 
are now made available through ‘ESIC - Chinta Se  Mukti’ mobile app launched  through 
UMANG (Unified Mobile Application forN  ew-ageG  overnance)p latform.
Where the Economic Reforms Have Not Delivered?
What we have just covered is the positive side of the reforms, however, it also has shades 
of grey areas which is a matter of concern.348 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(1)  The overall growth even though higher from the past and also in relation to other 
economies, has been fairly uneven, or exclusive but not inclusive.
(2)  The benefits of growth have been confined to few not broad-based to benefit the 
masses.
(3)  It is not led to the desired degree of expansion in employment opportunities, normally 
associated with, high levels of growth. Employment in the manufacturing sector has 
stagnated.
(4)  The  growth  has  been  highly  skewed,  accentuating  inter-state  and  intra-state 
inequalities. It has virtually left the (Bihar, MP, Assam, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh) 
states untouched.
(5)  The  ‘license  Raj’  has  been  abolished  but  replaced  by  a  bigger  hindrance  of  the 
‘inspector Raj’.
(6)  Bureaucratic control has solely changed its face has moved from direct to indirect 
such as pollution control boards, environmental clearances, etc.
(7) Levy and collection of excise duties is still complex.
(8) The earlier nexus between the politics and business, despite the reform process, has
only go tstronger.
The above has not happened essentially because the government has virtually pressed 
the ‘pause’ button of economic reforms with a large unfinished agenda of:
(1)  The government could be said to have gone ‘soft’ on bolder reforms. Labour market 
reform,  which  is  not  even  being  considered  by  the  government,  despite  it  being 
fundamental,  in  the  changed  circumstances  and  to  provide  the  much  needed  link 
between growth and employment opportunities.
(2)  Further, unshackling the private sector from the myriads of indirect interface with 
the government.
(3)  Bringing on board the state governments to share the passion of driving the reforms 
deeper across states.
(4)  Pushing through to make the NCLT functional at the earliest as it is one of the 
components of an exit policy, seen as a facilitator to the process of liberalization.
(5)  Privatization has virtually been put on the back burner with only disinvestment in 
public sector being considered. This is a retrograde step and at least a platform should 
be created for building a broad-based consensus.
(6)  Loss-making public sector continues to act as a drain and no efforts made to see how 
they can be integrated in a liberalized market economy.
(7)  The banking sector despite reforms is largely dominated by the public sector and no 
efforts at their consolidation or privatization for their long-term sustainability.
(8)  Efforts at reforms in the insurance sector have been half-hearted, with the dominance 
of the government, despite the fact that insurance in market is fairly under developed 
and lacking penetration.
(9)  The FDI policy still has a number of structural issues and potential road blocks 
to  foreign  investment.  FDI  in  organized  retail,  raising  sectoral  caps  for  insurance 
business by foreign companies are key aspects of reforms.TWO DECADES OF ECONOMIC REFORMS—INDI A 349
40.4 UNFINISHED AGENDA OF ECONOMIC REFORMS
The  government  has  a  fairly  long  list  of  the  unfinished  agenda  in  economic  reforms, 
which is not presently considered as a priority but would become critical in driving the 
reforms not only deeper but sustainable in the future as the economy steps into the global 
environment. It has political compulsions in a democratic framework and gets limited by 
the lack of consensus on many bolder reforms.
It is not to say that it should coercively drive bolder reforms, but at least do those 
which fall in its domain, less controversial, and for the bolder reforms, flag them, create 
appropriate platforms for discussions and over a period of time, with consensus implement 
them.  At  a  still  broader  level,  reforms  other  than  economic  also  influence  economies 
such as police, judicial, bureaucracy and many such smaller reforms can have a profound 
impact, by spreading positive sentiments of growth and welfare in the economy.
It  can  be  said,  all  these  reforms  economic  or  otherwise  are  centred  ‘around’  the 
government but what about the government itself? It is also a candidate for reform itself. 
The  speed  of  decision-making,  better  inter-ministerial  coordination,  leaner  government 
structure, technology-enabled, proactive and not reactive character, are all relatively simple 
to implement and send positive signals in the economy.
It is in these, not able to implement 1000 of smaller reforms, it can be said that reforms 
in India have slowed down, if not paused by the government and not because of its in 
ability to push through bolder norms. It is not the ability to push bolder reforms which is 
being questioned, but as mentioned previously, in their ability to flag them and provide a 
platform for a broad-based consensus, which is being questioned. The other is government­
reforming itself, which is relatively easy but still difficult requires a strong will and still 
more important a decisive discipline and a consciousness of their larger responsibilities 
towards the national interests rather than party interests.
40.5 BIG BANG ECONOMIC REFORMS CENTRED
AT ECONOMIC GROWTH
During 2014, after the UPA-government historic mandate Narendra Modi, took over as 
India’s Prime Minister with the promise of good days (achhe din) for all. India’s agenda 
on the so-called big bang economic reforms were listed and discussed across forums from 
day 1 of the Modi-government. These were categorized as GST, land acquisition, labour, 
banking, investment liberalization and subsidy reforms.
During last two years the government is right on track of reforms front not through 
big bang reforms, but several small, baby-steps. Most notably, the government has set 
economic wheel in motion by kicking off the process in the area of subsidy reforms. It 
has done so by promoting Aadhaar-bank account linkage for the roll out of Direct Benefit 
Transfer (DBT). The LPG subsidy roll our through DBT was indeed a great move by 
this government to curtail leakage and diversion of government funds—something that 
distorted the system for long.
In  the  next  three  years,  the  government  should  enhance  the  reform  task  to  food, 
fertilizer and other government benefits to the poor. The passage of Aadhaar Bill is a great 
enabler. The whole subsidy reforms process, which was first kicked off by the UPA-regime, 
is  built  on  the  DBT  channel,  based  on  the  unique  identity  number,  or  Aadhaar  card 350 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
provided to each citizen. It holds particular importance for the current government, and 
the success of its financial inclusion push under the JAM (Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile) 
trinity. With 99.21 crore Aadhaar cards already been issued to almost 97 percent of the 
country’s adult population, taking ahead the subsidy reforms process using this channel is 
a logical step for India.
Liberalization  of  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  norms  and  ‘Modi  shows’  in 
numerous foreign trips, have led to the spike in inward fund flows. The FDI inflows has 
grown by 29% to USD 40 billion in the fiscal year ending March 2016. But, the absence 
of revival in private investment cycle is still acting as a drag on the economy on multiple 
fronts. New projects are yet to happen in a major way and the existing stock of stalled 
projects continues to be a pain.. The chunk of stalled projects has gone up to Rs 11.4 lakh 
crore in the fourth quartero ff iscaly ear2 016.
The absence of fresh private investments  becomes  even a greater problem  seen in the 
backdrop of bank funding drying up to industries.H ugeN PAson  bank balanceshee tshave 
force d banksto sh utfundin g channels.Also, severe capital scarcity   in thecaseofs tare-r un  
bankshasfurthe rcon strained  banks’ability to fu nd theeconomicgro wth.Thus thebig ta sk by  
gov ernmentwould beto conv incethepr ivateinvestor sto  finance India’sinf rastructure projects 
something ess entialto  fireup an aspiring e conom y.
When it comes to banking sector reforms, the passage of the bankruptcy law is a major 
step in the process of overhauling the country’s Rs 101 lakh crorc banking sector, even 
though implementation is key. Bankruptcy code passage also helped the UPA government 
to break the reforms jinx in successive parliament sessions battered by controversies and 
political blame games.
The reforms task is half-done yet. If the ongoing spike in bank NPAs continue for 
another few quarters, state-run banks will face a crisis situation if the government fails 
to bail out these entities. Averting a banking sector crisis will be one of the key tasks that 
will be used to judge the finished agenda in economic reforms. The Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI) beginning the clean-up exercise has shown the actual depth of the trouble on the 
books of Indian banks (hidden bad loans), especially state-run lenders.
In the March-quarter, PSU banks have reported record level of bad Ioans resulting 
in cumulative losses of over Rs 14,000 crore in the quarter. While the clean-up exercise 
should be done sooner than later. A crisis in the banking sector can upset the calculations. 
In the long-term, the biggest reform banking sector need is privatisation since government 
cannot keep on feeding banks. So, it is high time now to undertake radical reform measures 
in the banking industry.
The issue of land reforms is more or less off the table now. Since land acquisition is more 
or less is a state-specific affair now, there isn’t much the central government can do about.
The  government  has  taken  up  a  catalytic  reform  agenda  across  multiple  domains 
since assuming charge whether it is legislative as in the Bankruptcy Act, procedural as in 
direct benefits transfer, or systemic like transparent auction of resources. The power sector 
reforms for coal supply, financial health of discoms under the UDAY scheme and bold 
innovative GST as biggest tax reform, thereby fulfilled the promise to significantly push 
up the GDP by 1.5%-2% going ahead.

CHAPTER41
INDIAN ECONOMY­
OUTLOOK AND 
CHALLENGES
This  is  the  concluding  section,  addressing  the  outlook  for  the  Indian  Economy  after 
discussing at all the facets and perspectives of the domestic economy, the world economy 
and the economic reforms. The outlook would also have its own set of challenges which 
would have to be overcome.
GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE—INDIA AND CHINA
First, the outlook from a global perspective, India clearly is one of the fastest growing 
emerging economies of the world, next to China, having the potential to overtake China 
in the medium-term. Though in recent times there has been a sharp deceleration in growth 
of India but these are for domestic reasons rather than global compulsions. Some of the 
distinct advantages which India has over China are:
(1)  India is the largest democracy in the world, elected government, participative and 
collective wisdom within the government moving up the economic ladder slowly but 
consensus-driven and with long-term sustainability.
(2)  India with its young population would contribute to the global workforce.
(3)  It has the largest number of English-speaking workforce outside the US.
(4)  Annually,  India  produces  6  lakh  engineers,  some  world-class  from  the  IIT  and 
some mediocre. Even if 25 per cent of them are world-class it would mean one lakh 
engineers a year which is impressive by any global standards.
(5)  India is a way ahead of China in respect of market-determined exchange rate, fairly 
open capital account besides already having current account convertibility.
(6)  India’s  financial  sector  is  fairly  liberalized,  transparent  accounting  practices, 
standardized  income  recognition,  asset  classification  norms,  with  high  levels  of 
capital than that prescribed by the international standards.
(a) Indian banks were the first, amongst emerging economies to have already 
implemented the Basel II accord.
(7)  There is a freedom of speech, freedom to express opinions on important issues besides 
relatively a free media. This provides for internal checks and balances and also testing 
of policies and consensus building on sensitive economic issues.352 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
(8)  In  recent  times,  China  with  its  high  growth  earlier has started showing signs  of 
an  overheated  economy  with  infrastructural  constraints  surfacing,  increase  in 
unemployment and the pinch of inflationary pressures.
India on the other hand, is better placed in these areas as inflationary pressures 
have already peaked and have begun their down-turn.
However, these latent advantages have to be leveraged by India to reap the benefits of 
double digit fastest growing economy.
41.2 DOMESTIC OUTLOOK
(1)  The government will have to relook at the unfinished agenda of economic reforms 
and pursue with the  right vigour as that displayed during 1991.
(2)  It will have to reshape itself becoming more professional in its approach from a 
‘driver’ of growth to ‘management’ of growth, which is allowing growth itself to grow 
with its own momentum, by playing the role of a facilitator.
(3)  This would require the government to create an enabling environment, within which 
the growth not only increases but is allowed to spread more evenly across the economy.
(4)  It  has  to  embrace  electronic  governance,  provide  for  technology  and  innovation 
intensive  investment,  aimed  at  newer  technologies,  at  affordable  prices,  benefiting 
the masses.
(5)  It has to look at newer ways of‘3 Es’ Envisioning, Empowerment and their smooth 
and seamless Execution.
(6)  It cannot lose sight of the problems of poverty and malnourishment of a vast section 
of population.
(7)  It also has to ensure that growth rates in future should be more broad-based in nature 
and benefit masses.
(8)  Skill formation has to be given priorities by strengthening the institutional framework 
and that sufficient skills are available to meet the growing output of the economy.
(9)  It will require a better understanding of its role changing to creating an enabling 
environment for all the sectors to deliver.
Finally, from a financial perspective, the role of RBI and its responsibilities would have to 
radically change as India enters a globalized world.
41.3 OUTLOOK FOR RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (RBI)
The RBI would have to play the role of ensuring seamless transition of the Indian banks to 
the internationally prescribed Basel III norms. It would have to build better risk assessment 
capabilities, riska ppetitea ndsu fficiencyof cap ital,inth e I ndia nbanki ngsystem ,inthew ak eof 
the gl oba l fi nancial  fallout . The gov ernm ent has set up a n ap ex lev el fin ancial  stability 
developm  ent council (FSDC) foraddre ssin g issues of financi al  stability , inter-regu latory 
coordinatio n,financiallit eracyand financia linc lusion.  
Though this council is still at a nascent stage but RBI would be required to play a 
major role with other regulators providing inputs. Its role should not be that of excessive INDIAN ECONOMY—OUTLOOK AND CHALLENGES 353
regulations  but  to  provide  a  domestic  oversight  mechanism  to  financial  and  other 
sectors and a conduit to pass on global financial developments. RBI would also need to 
understand that while credit contraction or expansion by banks lies within its purview, it is 
not answerable for any deceleration in industrial growth, arising out of credit contraction.
This is what the council should do to provide the interface and not earn the status of a 
‘super regulator" in the economy. It should only be a platform for providing interface with 
other regulators of the economy. Neither should the council allow emergence of a super 
regulator in the economy. As a super regulatory would only make the other regulators in 
the economy meaningless and ineffective, defeating the very purpose of a regulator.
It should also have to take critical decisions especially in respect of exchange rates in 
determining the levels and timing of its intervention to manage exchange rates. Another 
aspect would be managing the capital inflows. We had previously discussed about the 
‘impossible trinity’ of being able to manage any two, between exchange rate, open capital 
account and an independentm onetary policy.Th iswo uld bethe  bigg estchall engeforthe  RB Iin  
futur e.
Overall, the Indian Economy has a bright outlook, from all the angles, but still requires 
first, conversion of advantages as opportunities and then their encashment. It places great 
responsibilities on the shoulders of the government and RBI of leading from the front, and 
make India a front runner amongst the emerging economies in the future.
INDIAN OUTLOOK—CHALLENGES AHEAD
While  India  is  a  global  prospect,  full  of  opportunities,  a  potentially  fastest  growing 
economy  and  larger  global  presence  it  has  some  inherent  stiff  challenges.  The  first 
challenge, as outlined previously of the ability of converting advantages into opportunities 
and subsequent encashment or translation into increased investment, output and income. 
The second being, the global outlook still has many question marks and uncertainties of 
the following:
(1) Recovery of large economies post-crisis.
(2)Fears of double-dip recession.
(3)Uncertain future of Euro and Eurozone.
(4)Smaller economic ability to destabilize global economy.
(5)Implications of growing sovereign debt of large economies, Implications of a different 
international reserve currency other than USD.
These uncertainties impose greater challenge for countries such as India and China 
for lifting global output.
The changing global axis towards the emerging economies is seen as a welcome feature of 
the new world order. There are two aspects to understand in this shift, one of the axis being 
‘pulled" towards the emerging economies, and the other, of the axis being pushed" towards 
the emerging economies. Which is happening ‘pulled or pushed?"
The global crisis is pushing the axis towards emerging economics as the only way going 
forward. It is not that something dramatic has happened in these emerging economies, 
especially India. As we have seen previously, the unfinished agenda before the government 354 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
the  pause  on economic reforms  only  re-affirm the aspect of being pushed rather than 
being pulled.
Thus, the larger question of countries such as India is it ‘prepared’ for such structural shift 
of the global economy? Capital inflows into these economies was seen as good for them, but 
large surge inflows recently, has been seen as potentially destabilizing, and has triggered cur­
rency war situations. Most economies have resultantly imposed restrictions of such inflows. 
India has restrained so far but for how long?
These inflows are coming because of quantitative easing by the US and not due to 
any particular positive feature of the emerging economies like India. ‘It is absence of an 
alternate window which is causing this surge in inflows.’ However, such can also seep into 
real estate, commodities, besides the stock market and also corporate and sovereign debt 
market creating ‘asset bubbles’, which by definition, will burst when the economy is least 
prepared.
An equally greater challenge for countries like India would be how to manage outflows, 
asset bubbles bursting, if they happen, once an alternate window is available? Another 
belief of the new world order is the likelihood of increased penetration of countries, for 
example, India in the global economy with larger share of exports of goods and services.
Given  the  market  imperfections  in  India, can it  be globally  competitive  to achieve 
penetration?  India’s  export  sector  continues  to  lack  maturity  of  understanding  the 
importance of moving up the value chain, rather than, exchange rate movements, as more 
fundamental, to achieve the levels of penetration. The integrated global economy would 
definitely open opportunities, but penetration, will largely rest on ability of countries like 
India to emerge as globally competitive.
Yet  another  aspect  is  that  India  and  China  by  virtue  of  their  large  population  are 
being seen as potential markets but do these markets have income or purchasing power 
to actually become market as widely believed? That is, besides the above challenges; it will 
also have a larger set of domestic challenges. They are as follows:
(1)  The major challenge of an impoverished India, home to largest number of people 
living below USD 1 per day, of absolute poverty, malnourished and a large social 
sector outside the mainstream of development.
(a) The challenge will be of drawing the vast lot of such people, larger than 
population of many countries, into mainstream of development.
(2)  A larger challenge as expressed by the eleventh five-year plan and would also get 
echoed in the twelfth five-year plan, of not increasing rates of growth, but of providing 
greater inclusive growth.
(a) The challenge is thus not growth but how to ensure they are evenly spread to 
provide broad-based benefits to masses?
(3)  Then the issue of a stagnant, traditional and livelihood agriculture. Is the agricultural 
sector capable and prepared to meet the needs of a growing economy with rising 
income levels?
(4)  Despite all the talk about India as a new economy, India continues to be a country of 
villages; the soul of India is in the 6 lakh villages.INDIAN ECONOMY—OUTLOOK AND CHALLENGES 355
It is not about converting villages into towns. Villages are an essential fabric of the 
Indian economy, but how to make them self-contained in terms of basic amenities 
and also provide people in the villages, with a source of income?
We have seen earlier, the huge investment deficit especially in infrastructure sector 
like power. From where does one raise the huge resources required for bridging this 
deficit?
This is not to talk about rural infrastructure, which is already crumbling, requiring 
not only re-building but also fresh investment.
(5)  Even die industrial and financial sectors where reforms have been centred, there is 
still a large presence of the public sector.
Will they be competitive and continue to be profitable, as a public sector, in the 
absence of their privatization, in a rapidly transforming market economy of India?
(6)  India’s growing dependence on imported crude petroleum will only increase with 
increased growth.
However,  how  does  India  insulate  itself  from  sharp  volatility  in  international 
crude petroleum prices?
How does one build energy security in India? Are we concerned of our structural 
problems in the energy sector?
(7)  In the recent past the government has been accused of a ‘policy paralysis’ but in 
reality it is more of ‘policy uncertainties’, absence of ‘policy continuity’ and fears 
of policy reversal’. These are far more critical, influencing the entire economy than 
policy paralysis. The biggest difference is that policy paralysis can be shrugged off, 
while others require restoration of faith and that is the challenge of restoration of 
faith in the government.
An attempt has been made here to highlight the challenges as India prepares to go into 
the future. These challenges are not insurmountable, but need to be overcome. However, 
it will require sustained efforts, desire to overcome, collective political will and above 
all a realization, on the part of the government, of their criticality and fundamental in 
reshaping the Indian economy.
To reiterate, India has the advantage over other economies but the ability to harness 
them as opportunities and taping them, whether global or internal, is in the hands of India 
only. The fate of the Indian Economy in future is within our own hands, collectively and 
to shake up the government to make India realize its full potential, if not beyond usher in 
a new India, and restoring India to its past glory and stature, presently confined as leaves 
of history.
41.5 INDIA 2020: TOP 7 CHALLENGES.
Though  India  may  already  be  the  worlds  third-largest  economy  on  purchasing  power 
parity, it ranks only 58th out of 140 countries in the World Economic Forums Global 
Competitiveness Index of 2018. With high inflation, slow growth and lowering investor 
confidence, India faces seven key challenges while looking at 2020 and beyond.356 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
1.  Education  and  skills.  Though  India  is  housing  more  than  400  million  workers, 
more than two-thirds of Indian employers report that they are unable to find workers 
with the right skills to meet their workforce demand. This contrast indicates to clear 
opportunities ahead, while posing serious challenges with regard to education and 
skill development. The World Bank launched its first Human Capital Index (HCI) 
in Bali, Indonesia on October 11, 2018, as part of the World Development Report 
2019. The index ranks countries based on their success in developing human capital. 
India ranks 115 in World Bank human capital index.That’s much below its Asian 
peers,  including  China  ranked  46,  Indonesia  (87),  Malaysia  (55).  Singapore  was 
ranked number one in the world followed by Japan, Hong Kong and Finland.
2.  Urbanization. More than one-third of Indians live in cities. It is estimated that, by
2050, as many as 900 million people will be living in urban areas, Meeting their  
needs while safeguarding the environment will require innovative ands ustained
models of urban development in the years ahead.
3. Health. On health front, India faces the double burden of infectious diseasesand  
dramatic rise in non-communicable diseases. Apart from causing individual tragedies, 
these diseases are also posing major economic threats.
4. Sanitation.  Many  health  challenges  are  linked  to  sanitation.  Linking  a  clean 
environment to human capital productivity is an issue that should be looked at as an 
investment and not a cost. The challenge is to identify and implement the right way 
to every Indians a clean environment.
5. Gender. The gender gap prevents economic development all around the world. 
There is an urgent need for India to actively address the issue of violence and gender 
discrimination. This is another challenge before India while trying to reap the full 
potentials.
6.  Water scarcity. Growing population places a severe strain on its natural resources. 
Since the most of the water sources are contaminated by sewage, industrial wastage 
and agricultural run-off, ensuring adequate water supply will remain a challenge.
7.  Transparency.  Transparency  issue  dampens  the  whole  economy.  It  hampers 
competitiveness,  growth  and  overall  development  of  the  country.  India  has  to 
urgently address this challenge as well.
Diverse challenges of this complexity and magnitude cannot be expected to be solved 
by  government  interventions  alone.  There  is  a  requirement  for  collaborative  approach 
with active involvement from various stake holders.THE IGNITERS:
THOUGHT PROVOKING QUESTIONS
1.  The nature of economic growth in India is described as jobless growth. Do you 
agree with this view? Give arguments in favour of your answer.
2.  Comment on the challenges for inclusive growth which include careless and useless 
manpower  in the Indian context .Suggest  measures  to be taken for facing these 
challenges.
3.  Discuss in brief the importance of Niti Aayog in developing plans and policies for 
continous growth and development of India.
4.  How globalization has led to the reduction of employment in the formal sector of 
           
theIndian economy?Isincreased informalization detrimentalto the developmentofthe
   
country?
             
5. Livestock  rearing  has a big  potential for providing  non-farm employment and 
                 
income in  rural areas. Discuss suggesting  suitable reasons in  support of your
comments.
                     
6. In view of the declining average size of land holdings in India which has made
             
agriculture non-viable for a majority of farmers, should contract farming and land 
             
leasing be promoted in agriculture? Critically evaluate the outcomes of this action 
     
attheruralfront.
                   
7. What is water-use efficiency? Describe the role of micro-irrigation in increasing the
 
water-useefficiency.
                   
8. Discuss the role of land reforms in agricultural development. Identify the factors
               
thatwereresponsibleforthesuccessofland reformsin India.
                 
9. Given the vulnerability of Indian agriculture to vagaries of nature, discuss the need 
                   
for crop insurance and bring out the salient features of the Pradhan Mantri Fasal
   
BimaYojana(PMFBY).
               
10. Normally countries shift from agriculture to industry and then later to services, but
                     
India shifted directly from agriculture to services. What are the reasons for the huge
               
growth of services vis-a-vis industry in the country? Can India become a developed 
     
country withoutastrong industrialbase?
                     
11. While we found India’s demographic dividend, we ignore the dropping rates of
                       
employability. What are we missing while doing so? Where will the jobs that India
     
desperately needscomefrom?Explain.
           
12. India needs to strenghten measures to promote the pink revolution in food industry 
           
forensuring betternutrition and health.Do you agreewith thestatement?Justify.358 THE INDIAN ECONOMY
13.  There is also a point of view that agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) 
set up under the state acts have not only impeded the development of agriculture 
but also have been the cause of food inflation in India. Critically examine.
14.  “In the villages itself no form of credit organisation will be suitable except the 
cooperative society.” - All Indian rural credit survey. Discuss this statement in the 
background of agriculture finance in India.
15.  In what way could replacement of price subsidy with Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) 
change the scenario of subsidies in India? Substantiate
16.  Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) is necessary for bringing unbanked to 
the institutional finance fold. Do you agree with this for financial inclusion of the 
poor section of the Indian society? Give arguments to justify your opinion.
17.  Craze for gold in Indians have led to a surge in import of gold in recent years and 
put pressure on balance of payments and external value of rupee. In view of this, 
examine the merits of Gold Monetization Scheme.
18.  The demonetisation policy have led to a surge in transparent and corruption free 
business practices at the same time resulted in pressure on growth and development 
of indian industry and service sector In view of this, examine the impact of the 
demonetisation policy.
19.  “Trade diversion occurs when tariff preferences offered under an FTA causes a shift 
of imports from firms in non-FTA member countries to less efficient firms within 
the trade bloc, which now become competitive due to tariff reliefs”. Discuss the 
impact of FTA on Indian Trade in the light of above statement.
20.  What are ‘Smart Cities’? Examine their relevance for urban development in India. 
Will it increase rural-urban differences?
21.  How can the ‘Digital India’ programme help farmers to improve farm productivity 
and income? What steps has the Government taken in this regards?
22.  What are the impediments in marketing and supply chain management in industry 
in India? Can e-commerce help in overcoming these bottlenecks?
23.  “Success of ‘Make in India’ programme depends on the success of ‘Skill India’ 
programme and radical labour reforms.” Discuss with logical arguments.
24.  What is JAM trinity? Critically examine the relevance of JAM trinity in growth and 
development of Indian economy.
25.  “The rules of doing business in India have been simplified with the introduction of 
information technology to make governance more effective and efficient”. Do you 
agree with the statement? Give suitable reasons in support of your answer.
26.  How the merger of rail budget, a 92 year old tradition with the general budget 
is  going  to  affect  the  fiscal  policy  of  Government  of  India?  Substantiate  your 
comments with suitable reasons.THE IGNITERS: THOUGHT PROVOKING QUESTIONS 359
27. Thereis ac le arack nowledementthat Spec ialEcono micZones (SEZs) areatoo lof in dustr ial 
developm ent ,manufact uring  and exports .Recogn izing  this potent ial ,the w hole 
instrum  entality ofSEZsr equires augment ation.Discuss theissues plag uing th esuccess
ofS EZswit h r espect to taxation,g overning la wsand administ ration.
28.  Explain how private public partnership agreements, in longer gestation infrastructure 
projects, can transfer unsuitable liabilities to the future. What arrangements need to 
be put in place to ensure that successive generations' capacities are not compromised?
29.  Justify the need for FDI for the development of the Indian economy. Why there is 
gap between MOUs signed and actual FDIs? Suggest remedial steps to be taken for 
increasing actual FDIs in India.
30.  Foreign direct investment in the defence sector is now said to be liberalized. What 
influence this is expected to have on Indian defence and economy in the short and 
long run?