1) The 7th Community Radio Sammelan was held
in _______ from 27th to 29th August 2019: New
Delhi
2) Government launched mobile app “Janaushadhi
Sugam” for what purpose: To enable people to
search for Janaushadhi generic medicines
stores
3) As per the Forbes list of highest paid women in
music, who has been ranked no. 1 in world:
Taylor Swift, USA
4) Name the Hollywood star who topped the
Forbes’ list of highest-paid female actors in the
world: Scarlett Johansson
5) Bandhan Bank launched a co-branded credit
card in association with which Bank: Standard
Chartered Bank
6) What is the name of the National Sports
Awards given for excellence in adventure
sports: Tenzing Norgay National Adventure
Award
7) Name any two adventure sports categories for
which national sports award is given? Water
adventure, Air Adventure
8) Name the new Indian tennis super star who
recently won one set against ace tennis star
Roger Federar: Sumit Nagal
9) Sumit Nagal faced Roger Federar in which
international tennis event: US Open, New York
10) The RBI decided to transfer 1.76 lakh crore
rupees as dividend and surplus reserve to the
government. The decision is based on
recommendations of which committee: Bimal
Jalan Committee
11) Dense rain forest of which region are often
referred to as "Lungs of the Earth": Amazon
Forests in Brazil
12) Why Amazon forests are referred to as "Lungs
of the Earth": They contribute over 20 per
cent of world 's oxygen content
13) The Amazon forests were in news recently for
what reasons: They were stuck by hundreds
of wildfires causing wide spread
devastation of green cover
14) The Delhi and District Cricket Association,
DDCA has decided to rename the Feroz Shah
Kotla Stadium as what? Arun Jaitely Stadium
15) How Mr. Jaitely was linked with Feroz Shah
Kotla stadium? He was president of DDCA
16) Abdalla Hamdok, a prominent economist has
been sworn in as Prime Minister of which
African country: Sudan
17) Which apex national organization released the
Composite Water Management Index 2.0 for
2017-18: NITI Aayog
18) Which state has been ranked as No. 1 in the
Composite Water Management Index 2.0:
Gujarat
19) Madhur Deora has been appointed as the
President of______, India’s largest digital
payment company: Paytm
20) Which International Day is observed on August
21 to raise awareness about the condition of
older people: World Senior Citizens Day
21) On August 26, which international day is
celebrated across the world to promote gender
equality: Women's Equality Day
22) What is the name of the oldest Football
Tournament of Asia, finals of which were
played recently in Kolkata: Durand Cup
23) Which team lifted the Durand Cup 2019
trophy? Gokulam Kerala FC
24) The UNESCO Mahatma Gandhi Institute of
Education for Peace and Sustainable
Development (MGIEP) organised the first-ever
World Youth Conference in which city? New
Delhi
25) Komalika Bari became the recurve cadet
world champion in which sports? Archery
26) World Archery Youth Championships were
hosted by which city of Spain in August end?
Madrid
27) Name the India's para badminton star who won
the World Championship crown in para
badminton at Basel, Switzerland: Manasi Joshi
28) Arun Jaitley, former Union minister and top BJP
leader passed away after prolonged illness. In
the previous Modi Govt. he held charge of 
which two ministries, at the same time?
Defence Minister and Finance Minister
29) P V Sindhu scripted history as she became the
first Indian to win badminton’s World
Championships. She defeated which player?
Nozomi Okuhara of Japan
30) Who won the Men's singles title of the BWFWorld Badminton Championship at Basel,
Switzerland? Kento Momota of Japan
31) Which Indian player won the Bronze in men’s
singles at the World Badminton
Championships? B Sai Praneeth
32) The Indian Army has entered into an
arrangement with which real estate firm to
take over dwelling units in 13 ‘Ready to Move
in’ pan-India projects? Tata Realty & Housing
33) The Financial Action Task Force’s Asia Pacific
Group recently blacklisted which country for
non-compliance and non-enforcement of
safeguards against terror financing and money
laundering? Pakistan
34) Where are the headquarters of the Financial
Action Task Force? Paris
35) Which apex Indian organization has announced
a new mechanism to reward insider trading
informants to uncover insider trading cases?
SEBI - Securities and Exchange Board of
India
36) Where are the headquarters of SEBI? Mumbai
37) Who is the chairman of SEBI? Ajay Tyagi
38) Which country launched an unmanned rocket
carrying a life-size humanoid robot named
Fedor? Russia
39) The humanoid robot Fedor will function at
which place? International Space Station
40) Which two Indian places have been featured in
the Time’s list of the 100 greatest places in the
world? 'Statue of Unity' in Gujarat and 'Soho
House' in Mumbai
41) Who has been selected as the new batting
coach for the Indian Cricket team? Vikram
Rathour
42) Which state topped the SARAL Index, which
evaluates the Indian states on the basis of their
attractiveness for rooftop solar development?
Karnataka
43) Which ministry launched the SARAL Index:
Power and New & Renewable Energy
Ministry
44) What is the expansion of the acronym SARAL?
State Rooftop Solar Attractiveness
45) As per Forbes' list of highest-paid actors, which
Bollywood star secured the fourth position
with earnings of $65 million (about Rs 450
crore)? Akshay Kumar
46) Indian Railways started its second doubledecker train “Uday Express”. It will run
between which two stations: Visakhapatnam
and Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh
47) What is the full form of UDAY? Utkrisht
Double-decker Air conditioned Yatri
48) RBI has permitted processing of e-mandate on
credit and debit cards and e-wallets for
recurring transactions (merchant payments)
with a cap of Rs _______ per transaction: 2,000
49) The RBI has ruled that registration and first
transaction of e-mandate will require AFA.
What is AFA? Additional Factor of
Authentication
50) The centre has notified new sets of health
warnings for all tobacco products. What it is?
Tobacco causes painful death
51) Ministry of Railways has directed all its units to
enforce ban on which type of plastic material
from October 2 this year: Single use plastics
52) Give some common examples of single use
plastic items? Disposable items, glasses,
bottles, etc.
53) Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a three
nation visit from Aug 22 to 26, covering
France, United Arab Emirates and_____:
Bahrain
54) Which country conferred her highest civilian
honour 'Order of Zayed' on Sh. Modi? UAEUnited Arab Emirates
55) King of which country honoured our Prime
Minister with "The King Hamad Order of the
Renaissance": Bahrain
56) The 45th G7 summit was held in _________,
France: Biarritz
57) Which e-commerce major inaugurated its
largest campus in the world, in Hyderabad:
Amazon
58) Who has been appointed as the next Cabinet
Secretary by the Appointments Committee of
Cabinet: Rajiv Gauba
59) The Appointments Committee of Cabinet is
headed by which person? Prime Minister
60) Who has been appointed as the new Union
Home Secretary of India? Ajay Kumar Bhalla
61) The National Sports Awards 2019 were
announced by Selection Committee headed by
retired judge Justice _______: Mukundakam
Sharma
62) Which is the highest recognition from the Govt.
of India for outstanding achievements in 
sports: Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna
63) How many sports person were selected in 2019
for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award? Two
64) Name the star wrestler who won the Rajiv
Gandhi Khel Ratna Award 2019: Bajrang
Punia
65) Paralympian Deepa Malik has been selected for
Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award for outstanding
achievements in which sports: Athletics - Shotput
66) The Govt. of India honours veteran sports
coaches with which award: Dronacharya
Award
67) Which national sports award is given to honour
the veteran sports persons for their life time
achievement: Dhyan Chand Award
68) India celebrates National Sports Day on which
date? August 29
69) National Sports Day celebrates the birthday of
which legendary hockey player? Major Dhyan
Chand
70) India’s first Central Institute of Chemical
Engineering & Technology will be set up in
which state: Gujarat
71) According to an analysis of a NASA data
released by environmental watchdog NGO
Greenpeace, _________ is the world's largest
emitter of anthropogenic Sulphur Dioxide:
India
72) What is the main source that releases Sulphur
Dioxide in the atmosphere? Coal burning
73) The HRD ministry launched the Integrated
Teachers Training Programme, NISHTHA for
what purpose: To build and improve the
capacities of around 42 lakh teachers across
India
74) What is the full form of acronym NISHTHA?
National Initiative for School Head’s and
Teachers’ Holistic Advancement
75) Zambian ______ Edgar Chagwa Lungu arrived in
India on a three-day official visit: President
76) Which city is the capital of Republic of Zambia:
Lusaka
77) The Task Force headed by Akhilesh Ranjan for
review of Income Tax Act and drafting of new
DTC submitted its report. What is DTC? Direct
Tax Code
78) World Photography Day is celebrated on which
date: August 19
79) Which country won the inaugural T20 Physical
Disability World Cricket Series 2019 held in
England: India
80) Indian cyclists team won the gold medal in the
Team Sprint event at World Junior Track
Cycling Championships held in______, Germany:
Frankfurt
81) A 9 day National Tribal Festival “Aadi
Mahotsav” was held in which place: Leh,
Ladakh
82) Biographical documentary "100 Years of
Chrysostom" was in news recently for what
reasons: It was selected for the Guinness
Award in the category of longest
documentary, running for 48 hrs and 8
minutes
83) Biographical documentary "100 Years of
Chrysostom" is related to life of which great
saint: Philipose Mar Chrysostom, Kerala
84) World Humanitarian Day is observed across
the world with UN support on which date to
pay tribute to workers who risk their lives in
humanitarian services: August 19
85) ________ defeated China to win the gold medal at
the Under 12 Asian Tennis Team championship
held in Kazakhstan: India
86) A one of its kind underground Bunker Museum
has been opened at Raj Bhavan of which state:
Maharashtra (Mumbai)
87) Name the veteran Bollywood composer and
music director, best known for his music in
classic films such as Kabhi Kabhie and Umrao
Jaan, Noorie, Trishul, who passed away
recently: Khayyam
88) What was the real name of Khayyam:
Mohammed Zahur Hashmi
89) August 20, the birthday of Rajiv Gandhi who
served as Prime Minister from 1984 to 1989 is
celebrated as which special day: Sadbhavna
Diwas (Harmony day)
90) The Prime Minister in his Independence Day
speech announced the launch of “Jal Jeevan
Mission” for what purpose: To provide piped
water supply to every house by 2024
91) Justice Madan B Lokur, retired Supreme Court
judge has been appointed a judge of the
nonresident panel of the Supreme Court of
which country: Fiji
92) Who has been re-appointed as the head coach
of the Indian men's cricket team by the Cricket
Advisory Committee of BCCI: Ravi Shastri
93) Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu made a visit
to three countries - Lithuania, Latvia and
Estonia. Put together these countries are
known by which other name: Baltic countries
94) The 5th International Army Scout Masters
Competition was held at ______ from July 24 to 
August 17: Jaisalmer, Rajasthan
95) On August 15, ________ became the first Indian
airline to fly over the North Pole while
connecting New Delhi to San Francisco in south
west USA: Air India
96) Name the veteran Bollywood actress known for
her memorable roles in films like
"Rajnigandha" (1974) and “Choti si Baat”, who
passed away recently: Vidya Sinha
97) Which day is celebrated every year on last
Shravana Purnima according to the Hindu
calendar to highlight the importance and
positive points about Sanskrit: World Sanskrit
Divas
98) _______ became India’s first junior World
Champion in last 18 years, claiming a gold
medal at the Junior World Championships at
Tallinn, Estonia: Deepak Punia
99) RBI has asked banks that transactions failed
due to technical reasons at ATMs or due to nonavailability of cash, should not be _________:
Included in the "free ATM transactions"
permitted every month
100) The Prime Minister in his Independence Day
speech announced that the country will now
have a CDS. What is CDS? Chief of Defence
Staff
101) The ‘abhishekam prasadam’ Panchamirtham of
Murugan temple, Palani has been granted GITag. It is in which state? Tamil Nadu
102) India’s third highest wartime gallantry award
was recently conferred upon __________: Wing
Commander Abhinandan Varthaman
103) Priyam Chatterjee became the 1st Indian to be
awarded the 'Chevalier de l’Ordre du Mérite
Agricole' by the government of France for
achievement in which field: Cookery
104) Which state won the “best innovation and
initiative leadership award” in the World
Education Summit-2019 held in New Delhi:
Rajasthan
105) American gymnast ________ made history with a
never-before-seen “triple-double” floor
exercise landing: Simone Biles
106) Railway Protection Force (RPF) launched a
special drive code named "Operation Number
Plate” for what purpose: To identify and
verify all vehicles parked in Railway
premises
107) _________ became the first ever batsman in the
world to score 20,000 international runs in a
single decade: Virat Kohli
108) International Youth Day is observed on which
date: August 12
109) The 2022 Commonwealth Games will be held at
which place: Birmingham, UK
110) The International Cricket Council and
Commonwealth Games Federation have
confirmed the inclusion of which cricket event
in 2022 Birmingham games? Women's T-20
111) Central government has made "Headgear"
(wearing a helmet) mandatory for children
above _____ years while travelling on a
motorcycle/scooter in public place: Four
112) The Army launched "Mission Reach Out" in
which state to ensure the availability of basic
necessities and essential services in the region:
Jammu & Kashmir
113) In one of India’s largest ever foreign direct
investment deals to date, which company
invested $75 billion in Reliance Petro: Saudi
Aramco
114) Alejandro Giammattei has been elected as the
President of Guatemala. Give location of this
country: South of Mexico
115) Aishwarya Pissay became the first Indian to
claim a world title in which sports?
Motorsports
116) Typhoon Lekima, a severe typhoon packing
winds of nearly 190 kilometres per hour,
devastated a part of which country: Eastern
Coastal China
117) On August 09, which day is observed around
the world to promote interest of indigenous
people and tribals? World Tribal Day
118) Ace wrestler_______won the fourth gold of the
season by defeating Mehran Nasiri of Iran at
Tbilisi Grand Prix: Bajrang Punia
119) Which country hosted the wrestling event
Tbilisi Grand Prix: Georgia
120) ‘Samagra Shiksha-Jal Suraksha’ mission
launched by the _____ ministry to create
awareness about Water Conservation among all
school students in the country: HRD
121) Which star South African batsman announced
his retirement from all formats of international
cricket: Hashim Amla
122) Which Sikh museum in Punjab became the
most visited museum in the Indian
subcontinent: Virasat-e-Khalsa Museum,
Anandpur Sahib
123) Asian Development Bank (ADB) has approved a
$200 million loan for improving road
infrastructure in 34 districts of _________:
Maharashtra
124) The 66th National Film Awards were 
announced on August 9 by the jury headed by
veteran film director _______: Rahul Rawail
125) The national award for most film friendly state
was given to which state: Uttarakhand
126) Which film won the national award for best
feature film? Hellaro (Gujarati)
127) Hindi film "Badhaai Ho" won which top
national film award? Best Popular Film
128) Which film won the National award for the best
Hindi film: Andhadhun
129) Which state created a series of world records in
the massive tree plantation drive ‘Vriksharopan
Mahakumbh’? Uttar Pradesh
130) The 22nd National Conference on eGovernance was hosted by which city:
Shillong, Meghalaya
131) Which global card company launched a nextgeneration, mobile-first authentication
solution, “Identity Check Express”?
MasterCard
132) Which Indian transsexual woman won the
crown of Miss World Diversity 2019 at a
pageant held in Port Louis: Naaz Joshi
133) Toni Morrison, the first Afro-American Nobel
laureate in _________ (1993), passed away in
New York: Literature
134) Which world day is observed on August 06 to
focus on creating awareness for anti-war and
anti-nuclear discussions and demonstrations:
Hiroshima Day
135) National Handloom Day is observed on which
date? August 07
136) Scientists at the University of Leeds created the
thinnest unsupported gold ever made, just two
atoms thick. Where is this university? England,
UK
137) Which apex body plans to set up a central
payment fraud registry, which will monitor
digital payment frauds on real-time basis?
Reserve Bank of India
138) The RBI has decided to allow round-the-clock
fund transfers through which channel from
December this year in order to promote digital
transactions: National Electronic Funds
Transfer (NEFT)
139) Name the veteran director and maternal
grandfather of actor Hritik Roshan, who passed
away in Mumbai at the age of 93: J Om
Prakash
140) The day on which Mahatma Gandhi gave a
clarion call to end the British rule and launched
the Quit India Movement in 1942 is celebrated
as which day on August 8: August Kranti
Diwas
141) Tamil Nadu’s Pathamadai mats have been
granted Geographical Indication (GI) tag. These
mats are used on which special occasions:
Wedding ceremonies
142) The 3rd edition of India's largest education
brainstorming event, the ScooNews Global
Educators Fest (SGEF) was held in _______ ,
Rajasthan: Udaipur
143) Who is the only athlete from the country to find
a place in the Highest-Paid Female Athletes
2019 list released by Forbes of USA: P V
Sindhu, 13th
144) On August 07, RBI slashed repo rate by 35 basis
points. What is the new rate? 5.40
145) RBI slashed repo rate with a view to control the
inflation or to give a boost to the slowing
economy: Later, to boost economy
146) RBI takes account of inflation level by which
Index - CPI or WPI? CPI
147) What will be the impact of recent lowering of
repo rate on the EMI of Bank loans - they will
go up or they will come down? They will come
down
148) Sushma Swaraj, one of the BJP’s most popular
women leaders, passed away in New Delhi.
Besides being former External Affairs Minister,
she was also chief minister of _____ ? Delhi
149) Marble from Makrana in Rajasthan is now
Asia’s first Global Heritage Stone Resource.
Name any famous Indian monument made with
this marble? Taj Mahal
150) After re-organization of Jammu & Kashmir in 2
union territories, who will be their
administrative head: Lt. Governor
151) Which country honoured President of India,
Ram Nath Kovind with her highest civilian
decoration - National Order of Merit: Guinea
152) Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty
created history by becoming the first Indian
pair to win a ______ badminton tournament:
BWF Super 500
153) Which star Indian grappler bagged gold in
women's 53kg category in Poland Open
wrestling tournament: Vinesh Phogat
154) Which neighbouring country of India suffered
widespread outbreak of Dengue in first week of
August: Bangladesh
155) Russi Taylor, the famous voice over artist died
in USA. She gave voice to which famous cartoon
character since mid 1980s: Minnie Mouse
156) Government has set up a joint venture
company 'KABIL' for what purpose? To ensure 
supply of 12 critical minerals to Indian
domestic market
157) What is the full expansion of the acronym
'KABIL': Khanij Bidesh India Limited
158) Which Arabian country passed new laws to
remove age old restrictions on independent
movement of women? Saudi Arabia
159) What is the single most important feature of
the Unlawful Activities (Prevention)
Amendment (UAPA) Bill, 2019 recently passed
by the Parliament? Power to designate a
person as a terrorist
160) In a recent report released by the World Bank
on the global GDP rankings of 2018, India has
slipped down to the ____ place from fifth place
last year: 7th
161) What is the formal name of the recently passed
the Triple Talaq Bill: Muslim Women
(Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2019
162) As per the Triple Talaq Bill, the practice of
instant triple talaq is punishable by a jail term
of how many years: Three
163) Which cricketer crossed a rare mile stone of
scoring 1000 runs and taking 100 wickets in
the T20 format: Ms. Ellyse Perry, Australia
164) Atal Innovation Mission at Niti Aayog launched
which programme to encourage the spirit of
innovation at the community level: Atal
Community Innovation Centre Programme
165) Name the senior Indian TV journalist who was
one of the five persons selected for the
prestigious Ramon Magsaysay award: Ravish
Kumar
166) Ravish Kumar is popular for anchoring which
Hindi TV news programme: Prime Time on
NDTV
167) Which legendary Football club celebrated its
100 years of existence on August 01 in Kolkata:
East Bengal Club
168) Who has been sworn in as the Chief Minister of
Karnataka, for the fourth time: B S
Yeddyurappa
169) Which Scandinavian country passed a law to
ban face-covering clothing, such as a burqa or
niqab, in public buildings and on transport:
The Netherlands
170) The first ICC World Test Championship started
on August 1 at which place: Birmingham, UK
171) The 1st match of the first ICC World Test
Championship was held between which two
teams? Australia and England
172) India signed a deal worth around Rs 1,500
crore to acquire which air-to-air hypersonic
missiles from Russia: R-27
173) Indian Navy recently inducted indigenously
built INS LCU L-56. It is which type of ship:
Landing Craft Utility (LCU) MK IV class ships
174) Vidisha Baliyan, young beauty queen from
Uttar Pradesh won which international beauty
crown recently? Miss Deaf World 2019
175) Jerlin Anika, 15 year Tamil Nadu girl won the
gold medal in the World Deaf Youth _______
Championships held in Taipei: Badminton
176) UNO supports celebration of July 30 as a special
day devoted to raise awareness about the
situation of victims of human trafficking. Name
this day: World Day Against Trafficking
177) Dalilah Muhammad, 2016 Olympic champion
from USA shattered one of the longest standing
records in women’s athletics in which event?
400 metre hurdles
178) After giving GI-Tag to west Bengal for Rasagola
in Nov. 2017, which other state has now been
given GI-Tag for Rasagola: Odisha
179) Name the noted economist and former RBI
Deputy Governor (2009-12) who passed away
in July end: Subir Vithal Gokarn
180) The Union Cabinet cleared a Bill to increase the
sanctioned strength of the Supreme Court
judges from 31 to____, including the Chief
Justice of India: 34
181) Which house of Parliament - Lok Sabha or
Rajya Sabha - has decided to become paperless
from the next session: Lok Sabha
182) The Department of Posts has decided to
convert the India Post Payments Bank into
which type of bank: Small Finance Bank
183) V G Siddhartha, founder of the India's largest
coffee house chain, was in news due to his
mysterious suicide. What is the name of coffee
chain: Café Coffee Day - CCD
184) Rajiv Kumar, senior IAS officer has been
appointed as the new Union ________ Secretary:
Finance