CHAPTER1
Conservation and Management: Landscape
and Water
FACTS & CONCEPTS
♦ Introduction
♦ Conservation and Management of Landscapes
♦ Causes of Spoilage of Landscapes
♦ Need for Adopting Control Measures to Check Spoilage of Landscapes
♦ Measures to Check the Spoilage of Landscapes
♦ Need for Conservation and Management of Fresh Water
♦ Why do We Need to Conserve Fresh Water?
♦ Practices of Conservation of Fresh Water
♦ Integrated Watershed Management
♦ Recharging of Ground Water♦ Rainwater Harvesting,
♦ Development of Appropriate Technology
♦ Traditional Practices of Water Conservation
♦ Conservation and Management of Ocean Resources
♦ Major Stresses on Marine and Coastal Ecosystems
♦ Conservation and Management of Marine and Coastal Ecosystems
♦ Importance of Coral Reefs
1.1. INTRODUCTION
Our ecologists and economists say that the rates of exploitation and consumption of resources by
human beings, have reached to infinite levels since last few decades. Now, since these conditions are
not compatible with the finite resources of the earth, these are undermining the wellbeing of its both
the economic and the ecological systems. The imbalances thus caused in natural ecosystems are
leading to various types of environmental problems some of which are being mentioned below.
The spoilage of landscapes.
➢
The crisis in fresh water and oceanic resources.
➢
The degradation of forests, grass lands and semi-arid ecosystems.
➢
The degradation of soil.
➢
The extinction of species of plants and animals (wildlife).
➢
The above conditions of environment aided with various types of pollutions are giving birth to
various problems on natural and global levels. For these reasons the conservation and management of
our natural resources have become the most important challenge that is being faced by the human, race
in different parts of the world. In this chapter, we are going to study about the need of checking the
spoilage of landscapes as well as conservation and management of water resources including the
oceanic resources.
1.2. CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF LANDSCAPES
About one third of the earth’s surface is land. It covers an area of 140 million km2. The land
provides us different resources like soil, land cover and landscape. The soil is the basis of agriculture
and  food  production.  The  land  cover  includes  forests  and  other  vegetation.  It  is  important  for
maintaining natural conditions of environment. The landscapes are important components of human
habitations, peace and welfare. Since last few decades, vast areas of landscapes have been spoilt due
to various types of human activities and natural disasters. Hence, there is an urgent need of checking
the spoilage of landscapes.Fig.1.1. A Spoilt Landscape.
1.2.1. Causes of Spoilage of Landscapes
The landscape is principally spoilt due to -1.Human activities and 2. Natural Disasters.
The  human  activities  causing  spoilage  of  landscapes  are  –  bad  agricultural  practices  and
removal of natural vegetation. The bad agricultural practices include: excessive use of synthetic
fertilizers,  synthetic  pesticides  and  low  efficiency  of  irrigation  schemes.  These  factors  cause
considerable damage to soil. The application of synthetic fertilizers  alters  the  soil  quality  and
makes  it  unproductive.  The  synthetic  pesticides  often  kill  the  soil  organisms  and  cause  bio-
magnification in animals by joining food-chains in ecosystems. Low efficiency irrigation schemes
often cause wastage of water and flooding of lands. Flooding of land makes the soil saline and ruins
its productivity. The removal of natural vegetation spoils the land and vast areas of barren lands spoil
the landscapes.
Fig. 1.2. Removal of natural vegetation.The  natural  disasters  cause  serious  damages  to  landscapes.  The  principal  factors  causing
natural disasters are – floods, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions etc.
Table 1.1: Causes of land degradation
Extent of Soil Degradation
Causes
(Million ha)
Deforestation 580
Overgrazing 680
Fuel consumption 137
Agricultural mismanagement 550
Industry and urbanization 19.5
Fig. 1.3. Volcanic Eruption: A Natural cause of Land Spoilage.
1.2.2. Need for Adopting Control Measures to check Spoilage of Landscapes
The spoilage of landscapes has become a major environmental problem now. Hence, adoption
of control measures is necessary for checking the further spoilage and degradation of land. Some very
important steps needed for checking the spoilage of landscapes are being described here.
(i) For Controlling Soil Erosion
The soil is essential for the growth and development of vegetation that controls most of the
environmental processes. Secondly, it is the basic resource for agricultural production. The processof soil formation may take thousands of years but the same soil is taken away within a very short
period of time by natural forces like wind and rain. Human activities of clearing of vegetation,
overgrazing by cattle, careless mining activities etc. facilitate the process of soil erosion which
severely alters the functions of soil and spoils the landscape heavily.
The Soil Erosion Alters Soil Functions in Following Ways-
♦ It destroys the ability of soil to act as a filter for pollutants.
♦ It destroys the ability of soil to keep up the bio-geo-chemical cycles like the water-cycle
and the nitrogen cycle.
♦ It destroys the ability of soil to provide habitat and support the biodiversity at a particular
place.
So far, about 2000 million ha of soil has been degraded through human activities. Soil erosion
by water has alone degraded about 56 percent of soil. Degradation of soil through wind erosion,
overgrazing, clearing of vegetation and industrial activities are 28, 35, 7 and 1 percent respectively.
In the light of these facts, we can say that soil erosion and the spoilage of landscape are inter-related.
The erosion of soil can be controlled in following ways-
1. By mechanical protection of soil like building of bunds and terraces along hill slopes and
other slopey areas to control the speed of surface runoff.
2. By biological methods of soil protection like planting of trees, checking of deforestation
and controlling overgrazing by cattle.
3. By water conservation and integrated system of soil protection, like protecting the land
from water logging and adopting proper methods of land tilling.
(ii) For Controlling Desertification
The United Nations defines the desertification in following ways-
Land degradation in arid, semi- arid and dry sub- humid areas brought about by factors
such as climatic variations and human activities, is called as desertification. In fact, it is land
degradation process which occurs in dry sub-humid areas as a result of changes in climate and
human activities.
The desertification of land leads to major consequences. It has become a major problem in many
parts of the world and different nations are worried to control the advancement of deserts. Around
3600 million ha of the world’s dry lands were degraded by desertification up to the year 2000. In
view of increase in the problem of desertification, it is felt that appropriate preventive measures and
reclamation strategies must be taken up to combat this problem.
CAUSES AND CONSEQUENCES OF DESERTIFICATION
Scientists  across  the  world,  are  of  the  opinion  that  desertification  is  the  result  of  climatic
variations and atmospheric changes. But all of them now accept that some human activities are the
real causes behind the desertification in the current age. The whole world agrees that desertification
has many serious consequences that cause suffering and dangers to the whole life existing in the
particular areas, and also, that disrupt many of the environmental processes in those areas. Some of
the remarkable causes of desertification and its consequences are mentioned below.
CAUSES OF DESERTIFICATION-(i) Massive  deforestation  for  various  activities  like  extension  of  agriculture,  pasture
development, industrialization, mining, urbanization etc.
(ii) Overgrazing  by  cattle  that  renders  the  earth-  surface  bare,  infertile,  and  thus
unproductive.
(iii) Over cultivation that depletes most of the organic content of the soil and makes it prone
to soil erosion by wind and water.
(iv) Growth  of  human  population  and  consequent  degradation  of  land  through  increasing
human activities.
(v) Unscientific  irrigation  practices  and  flooding  of  fields  makes  the  soil  saline  and
unproductive.
CONSEQUENCES OF DESERTIFICATION -
Fig.1.4. One of the consequences of desertification.
(i) It reduces the ability of land to support life.
(ii) It adversely affects the lives of wild species, domestic animals, agricultural crops and
people.
(iii) Desertification reduces plant cover from the earth surface and accelerates soil erosion
through wind and water. Here is an example: South Africa is loosing about 300 to 400
million tones of top soil every year.
(iv) Desertification is a self-reinforcing process. It means, once the process of desertification
starts, the conditions are set for continual deterioration of land.
(v) Desertification  causes  a  drop  in  biological  productivity  which  leads  to  decline  in
economic  productivity.  It  further  forces  farmers  into  poverty  and  compels  them  to
migrate.
Control of desertification According to United Nations Environmental Programme
(UNEP), following measures can be adopted for controlling desertification –
♦ Banning of goat farming, which is destructive to the environment;♦ Reclaiming desertified land for increased productivity though a comprehensive approach;
♦ Developing appropriate farming practices suited to the fragile semi-arid region;
♦ Refining  of  economically  viable  traditional  practices  in  land  degradation  control  and
rehabilitation;
♦ Improving the living conditions and income of farmers in affected villages to lift them out
of poverty.
(iii) For Controlling Degeneration of Biodiversity and Checking Extinction of Species
We know that the species richness at any place is called as its biodiversity. It is very essential
to  maintain  the  biodiversity  because  every  species  has  a  key  role  to  play  in  the  environment.
Secondly, all the species and their characteristics are properties of our planet.
The biodiversity can be maintained by proper management of landscapes. For this clearing of
vegetation,  habitat  destruction,  use  of  pesticides  in  agriculture,  heavy  and  careless  mining  etc.
activities must be stopped.
(iv) For Controlling Deforestation and Associated Problems
The vegetation including forests and grasslands is essential for the maintenance of landscapes.
But  forests  and  grasslands  are  at  serious  risk  due  to  various  types  of  human  activities  like
industrialization,  urbanization,  agricultural  expansion,  pasture  development,  and  various  types  of
construction activities. More than 220 million ha of tropical forests were destroyed during 1975-90
for  the  expansion  of  agriculture  for  food  production.  The  loss  of  vegetation  cover  allows  an
imbalance  in  the  atmospheric  composition  of  gases.  Under  these  conditions  the  concentration  of
carbon dioxide increases in the atmosphere which further contributes to global warming and change
of climate. Under these conditions it is essential to adopt control measures for checking the spoilage
of landscapes.
(v) For Checking Soil Pollution
Lands are becoming seriously polluted due to dumping of wastes in different areas. The soil
pollution from acid rains and industrial wastes is another environmental issue associated with land
degradation, desertification, loss of vegetation and degeneration of biodiversity. About 12 percent of
the soil degradation is caused by dumping of wastes from chemical industries alone. In China, vast
areas  of  good  agriculture  land  are  threatened  by  chemical  pollution.  All  these  environmental
problems are further compounded to cause the spoilage of landscapes. Hence, the adoption of control
measures for these problems is very important.
(vi) For Reclamation of Land Spoilt by Industries
Vast  areas  of  land  have  been  made  useless  through  various  Industrial  activities  like  heavy
mining, overburden dumps, accumulation of wastes and construction activities. These activities put
serious stresses on land and cause spoilage of landscapes. Hence, it is essential to adopt control
measures to stop the spoilage of landscapes. The land which is made useless through industries
should be reclaimed for productive purposes.Fig.1.5. Reclamation of land.
What is the Reclamation of Land? Restoration of a land area to more natural state is
called as Land Reclamation. It is the process through which seriously disturbed surfaces of land are
stabilized against the hazards of wind and water erosion.
Sometimes, land reclamation involves creating new land from sea or riverbeds. Such type of
reclamation has become an old practice in many coastal areas of the world. Creation of artificial
islands is also an activity of land reclamation. The Kansai International Airport in Osaka, and
Hong Kong International Airport, Palm Island, Hotel Burj- al- Arab in UAE are examples of
artificial islands. However, new reclamation projects are restricted or no longer allowed by the
Laws of Environmental Protection, in some countries.
LAND REFORM
Various measures such as division of large portion of land into smaller ones, that are taken to
bring about a more equitable apportionment of agricultural land is called as Land Reform. In other
words,  deliberate  change  in  the  way  the  agricultural  land  is  held  or  owned,  the  method  of  its
cultivation, or the relation of agriculture to the rest of the economy is called as land reform. It has
both the political and environmental objectives-
1. A common political objective of land reform is to abolish feudal or colonial forms of
landownership.
2. The environmental or other objective incudes improving the social status of farmers and
coordinating agricultural production with industrialization programme.
1.2.3. Measures to check the spoilage of landscape
Following measures are adopted to check the spoilage of landscape-
(a) Prevention of soil erosion,
(b) Maintenance of soil fertility, and
(c) Management of land.Spoilage of land and landscape can be reduced or minimized by proper planning of land use.
Planning for proper utlization of land for different purposes is called as Land use Planning.
Some of the major advantages of land use planning are- (i) Checking land degradation (ii) Sustainable
development and, (iii) Soil conservation.
1.3. NEED FOR CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF FRESH WATER
According to the National Water Policy – 1987, water is a scarce and precious resource to be
developed  and  conserved  on  an  integrated  and  environmentally  sound  basis.  The  Planning
Commission of India has estimated that the Annual Water flow in our rivers is 1869 cubic kilometres
of water out of which we can use 550 cubic kilometres which accounts for 30 percent only. The
remaining 70 percent either goes to the sea, gets wasted or causes floods enroute. We are facing
irrigation problems from thousands of years due to water logging, salting or silting.
1.3.1. Why do we need to conserve fresh water?
There is an urgent need of water conservation because of the facts mentioned below-
Fig. 1.6. About 1.1 billion people in the world lack access to safe drinking water.
♦ Water is the most essential substance for life processes. It is essential for drinking, bathing,
cooking, irrigation, industry, and for the survival of plants and animals.
♦ The global supply of water is uneven. Due to this, many parts of the world frequently
suffer from water crisis, drought, and crop-failure.
♦ Most  of  our  fresh  water  sources  like  ground  water,  reservoirs,  rivers  etc.  are  under
increasing environmental stress. This stress on water is caused due to overuse, water
pollution and degradation of ecosystems.
♦ According to the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), some 80 countries
of the world suffered from serious water- crisis up to mid-1990s. The World Water
Council in its report of the year 2000, stated that the demand for water use is expected to
increase by 40 per cent by the year 2020. The agriculture will require 17 per cent more
water for producing food for our growing population by that time.♦ About1.1 billion people in the world lack access to safe drinking water. The surface and
ground water has been contaminated by toxic chemicals, wastes, and pathogens. Poor
water supply and problems of water sanitation are causing the spread of many water
borne diseases in many parts of Asia and Africa. Some of these diseases are- cholera,
diarrhoea, dysentery, eye infections, scabies, trachoma, ascariasis etc. According to a
report of the UNEP, about 3 million people in Africa die due to water borne diseases.
♦ Dumping of toxic wastes has polluted ground water through seepage. Landfill sites too,
contribute a lot in the pollution of the underground water. Secondly, the overuse and
misuse of ground water is causing the depletion of water table in many parts of the
country.
1.3.2. Practices of water conservation
Management  of  watersheds;  recharging  of  groundwater  through  various  methods  and
technologies; and traditional water harversting techniques are important practices of conservation of
water. These practices have been described ahead.
A. INTEGRATED WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
A Watershed is the reservoir in which the rainwater falling on a vast hilly area is made to
accumulate  for  recharging  the  water-table  and  for  keeping  it  reserved  for  domestic  and
agricultural purposes of local communities.
In watershed development, the water is conserved at source i.e. the rain water falling on hills is
stored and conserved in valleys. Civil structures like contour bunds, trenches, gully plugs, check
dams and percolation tanks are constructed to conserve water and to recharge the ground water. The
Watershed Management also aims at protecting precious top soil from getting eroded due to rain
water run offs. The Integrated Watershed Management incorporates full participation of villagers at
local level.
Fig.1.7. A Watershed.Watershed is the basic unit of development which involves a manageable subunit of water cycle.
The Integrated Watershed  involves  various  other  elements  that  are  linked  with  the  watershed.
These elements are: conservation, regeneration and judicious use of natural resources. Besides
this,  the  integrated  watershed  keeps  a  balance  between  human  demands  and  availability  of  the
resource.
Some of the major objectives of Watershed Management are -
1. Conservation of soil & water
2. Recharging the ground water–table
I. Major areas covered under Integrated Watershed Management
The Integrated Watershed Management covers different areas of environment which are listed
below-
(i) Management of soil and water,
(ii) Development of sustainable agriculture,
(iii) Improvement in cattle rearing or the animal husbandry,
(iv) Development of fodder for cattle,
(v) Development of Agro-forestry i.e. growing commercially useful trees on demarcation
lines of crop fields,
(vi) Management of rural energy, and
(vii) Development of community.
Presently, the Integrated Watershed Management is mainly carried out as a major project in
Orissa, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Madhya Pradesh. However the development of watersheds is
going on in many other states also on community basis. The Watershed Management is ideal at a place
which experiences short rainfall and which has megre arrangements for irrigation.
II. The Need of Integrated Watershed Management
The  implementation  of  Integrated  Watershed  Management  is  needed  for  the  sustainable
development  of  communities  in  a  particular  area.  It  is  most  needed  in  water  scarce  areas  for
following activities –
(i) For increasing production oriented works like increasing the agricultural production and
doing other income generating activities,
(ii) For implementing Agro-forestry and Soil Conservation Programmes (The agro-forestry
programmes in Karnataka and Agriculture Development Activities in Orissa are some
examples),
(iii) For the empowerment of local communities so that they can generate resources and can
maintain watersheds themselves,
(iv) For solving water and environment related problems,
(v) For planting trees to meet the demands of fibre and fodder,
(vi) For managing and stabilising hill slopes and terraces,
(vii) For controlling soil degradation through salinity and water logging,(viii) For assuring adequate quantity and quality of usable water through --
(a) The cultivation of less water –consuming crop varieties,
(b) The protection of water bodies,
(c) The construction of check dams,
Fig. 1.8. A Check Dam.
(d) The development of irrigation facilities,
(e) The development of water treatment facilities,
(f) Proper disposal of waste water and recharging the ground water.
(ix) For controlling floods and damages caused due to floods by-
(a) The construction of flood control dams along river banks,
(b) The plantation of trees in river basins to check soil erosion,
(c) The protection of wetlands,
(d) The construction of water diversion channels, and
(e) The control on overgrazing.
B. RECHARGING OF GROUND WATER
Getting back the required level of ground water is called as recharging of ground water. For
this, the water accumulated on the earth-surface is facilitated to enter into the earth and to raise the
level of ground water.
(i) Need of recharging of ground water
Concrete buildings, roads etc. cover big areas of land which do not allow the rainwater to enter
into the earth. Secondly, the slopes of hills too, do not allow the flowing water to enter into the earth.On the other hand, more than 80 percent of the domestic demand is met by ground water sources.
Irrigation alone consumes 90 percent of the extracted ground water. The extraction of the underground
water is being done at the rate higher than the natural recharge and snow- melts. These are the reasons
due to which recharging of ground water level is essential.
(ii) Techniques of recharging of ground water
The  recharging  of  ground  water  is  principally  done  through  Rain  water  harvesting  and  the
development of appropriate technology. Let us consider the rain water harvesting first.
1. RAIN WATER HARVESTING
The collection and transfer of rainwater from the catchment’s area to the place of storage
and use is called as rainwater harvesting.
The rainwater harvesting aims at-
(i) checking the rainwater from flowing far away causing en-route soil erosion and flooding
vast areas,
(ii) meeting the demands of water in water scarce areas,
(iii) recharging the ground water and raising its level, and
(iv) Checking the rainwater from becoming seriously polluted or contaminated.
The collection and use of rainwater is a traditional practice adopted in water scarce areas of
India since long. In those areas, people have been harvesting rain water since long. Now that the
overuse of the ground water in most parts of the world has pushed down the ground water at a critical
level, it has become most essential to bring back the depleted water level. For this, recharging of the
ground water is essential by allowing the rain water to run down inside the earth.
The water of rain can be harvested in many ways. Now that vast areas of land are occupied by
buildings and tarred roads, very less area is left open to catch the rain water and to allow it to go
inside  the  earth.  Under  these  conditions  the  rooftop  water  harvesting  for  domestic  uses  and  for
recharging of ground water is a novel option.
For the recharging of the ground water, following structures are usually constructed-
(a) Sub strata dykes
(b) Inverted tube wells
(c) Ponds and lakes with shafts and dug wells
ROOF-TOP RAIN WATER HARVESTING
The technique, through which the rainwater is captured from roof catchments and stored
for further use, is called as roof – top rain water harvesting or the domestic water harvesting.
The roof-top water harvesting and conservation system comprises six components which are
being introduced below-
(i) The catchments area or roof: It is the surface of the top of a house where the rain water
falls.
(ii) Gutters and downspouts: These are transport channels from the catchments surface to the
storage area.(iii) Leaf screen and roof washers: These are the systems that remove contamination and debris.
(iv) Storage  Tanks:  These  are  containers  or  permanently  built  structures  to  store  water  for
cleaning and the domestic use.
(v) Water treatment: For this, filters and equipments are used and disinfectants are added to
purify water.
Fig.1.9. Roof – top Rain Water Harvesting.
This approach requires connecting the outlet/drop pipe from roof of the building to divert the rain water, to either existing
wells/tubewells/bore wells or specially, designed structure.
For the roof-top rain water harvesting, the roof-top should be clear and safe. If the area of the
roof-top is located in Delhi, it is 100 sq m in area and the average rainfall is 0.6 m, the volume of the
water harvested will be 5, 1000 L.
The  rainwater  collected  on  roof  can  be  sent  to  recharge  trench  or  to  a  recharge  well,  dug
properly in the ground. It helps in improving the ground water level. The recharge trench or the
recharge well may also be an abandoned well in the area.
The Roof-Top water Harvesting is Traditional Practice of Water Conservation in Mizoram.
Since most of the villages in the state are situated on hill tops, the Mizo-community has to face acute
shortage  of  water  during  most  part  of  the  year.  The  Government  of  the  state  started  rainwater
harvesting  work  in  1986  with  a  number  of  projects  on  collection,  storage  and  purification  ofrainwater. As per records, about 24185 Rainwater Harvesting Tanks, and 32 impounding reservoirs
had been constructed in the state by 2006-07.
2. DEVELOPMENT OF APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY
Some  very  common  technologies  applied  for  the  recharging  of  ground  water  are  being
introduced below –
(i) Construction of check dams
A permanent or temporary wall constructed against the flow of water current in order to
check it against going away and also in order to raise the existing water level, is called as a
check dam.
Temporary check dams are constructed by using different types of locally available materials
like wood, pebbles, rock pieces, or wire nets. Accordingly, they are called as wood dams, rock
dams,  or  wire  dams.  The  concept  of  check  dams  was  applied  by  Shri  Rajendra  Singh  for  the
conservation of water in Rajasthan. He is called as “the water man of India”.
(ii) Construction of Irrigation Ponds
These are artificially constructed ponds in the area of water sheds for the collection of water for
irrigation. This practice is very much popular in South India where more than 2,000150 irrigation
ponds have been constructed to irrigate about 4 million ha of land.
enviro_Facts : 1.1.
PANI- PANCHAYAT
The  World  Bank  and  governments  are  proposing  the  privatization  of  water  as  a  solution  to  the  water  scarcity.
Environmentalists think that it is privatization of water that has created the crisis. Water conservation and sustainable use of water
can only be possible on the basis of the democratic control over water resources.
In Pune of Maharashtra state in India, an NGO named Gram Gourav Pratishthan launched a movement named Pani-
Panchayat in the year 1972. The central idea under the formation of the Pani – Panchayat was-no individual should be deprived of
a rightful share of the limited water resources on which life and the livelihood depends. To ensure justice, the Pani-Panchayat
manages water as a community resource and not as a private property. The cultivation of sugarcane was completely banned for
being inconsistent with the principle of responsible and sustainable resource use in drought prone regions.
(iii) Construction of Percolation Ponds or Percolation Pits
These are artificially constructed ponds in low lying areas to collect the rain water. Inverted
tube wells and dug wells are constructed in the bottoms of ponds so as to allow easy percolation of
water inside the ground and to recharge the ground water level.
(iv) Construction of Tunnels
These are deep structures in the ground, dug in order to collect the rain water in them. The rain
water so collected, in tunnels, recharges the ground water table.
(v) Construction of farm-pondsThese are structures constructed to collect the rainwater overflowing the crop fields or farms.
This water can be re-used for irrigation during dry seasons or for Pisciculture. Such ponds are also
useful in recharging of ground water. How ever, these are frequently subjected to eutrophication as
their water contains plenty of plant nutrients.
(vi) Sub strata-Dykes or Sub- surface dams
These are long thick walls built undergrounds in the bed of some streams to stop flooding on to a
low area of land or checking the sub-surface flow of water.
(vii) Inverted Tube wells
These are deep bore wells through which the rainwater is allowed to enter into the earth to
recharge the ground water.
(viii) Gully Plugs
The deep incision that cuts into the bedrock due to surface runoff of water is called as
gully. Gullies are formed in steep areas due to the erosion of soil by rain water. Gully plugs are
stones, sand bags or wood logs that are used as obstructions against the flow of water through gullies.
This practice checks the further erosion of soil as the speed of water flowing through gullies is
reduced by gully plugs.
C. TRADITIONAL PRACTICES OF WATER CONSERVATION
Water  has  been  harvested  in  India  since  the  ancient  period.  The  need  of  Conservation  and
Management of Water was felt even by the people of the Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro, about 5000
years ago. Here is a historical account of the practice of water conservation in India, after which we
will study about various water harvesting practices and structures that have been traditionally popular
in the different parts of the country.
(i) The Historical Account of Water Harvesting in India
The Archaeological Studies show that India’s Great Rann of Kutch had several reservoirs to
collect rain water run off in the extremely dry region of Dholavira, dating back to the 3rd millennium
before the Christ.
Kautilya’s Arthashashtra that was written in the 3rd century B.C. has a mention of irrigation by
rain-harvested water through community participation.
Junagarh  Inscriptions  dating  back  to  2nd  century  A.D.  inform  us  about  the  restoration  of
Sudarsana Lake, which is not seen now since 9th century A.D.
The Vijainagar Tradition of Vijainagar Kingdom (1336-1564 A. D.) laid much emphasis on the
development of irrigation and water harvesting for the improvement of agriculture.
The kings of olden days like Krishnadeo Rai (1509- 1530) etc. emphasized that prosperity of the
empire depended on the construction of irrigation channels and water tanks.
The Gond Tradition emphasized on the repairs of channels, embankments, distributaries, tanks or
Talabs etc. The Rani Talab of Jabal Pur is a glaring example of water harvesting tradition of Gond
Tribes.The Bengal Tradition laid emphasis on irrigation on irrigation with the water collected through
rain water harvesting.
The Karikala Chola of 2nd century A.D. built a Grand Anicut across the river Cauvery to divert
water for irrigation.
Raja Bhoj of Bhopal built the largest artificial lake (65,000 acres) in India. That lake was fed by
streams and springs. Kalhan in his Raj Tarangini (12 century A.D.) has described a well maintained
irrigation system in Kashmir.
(ii) Traditional Water Harvesting Systems in India
In respect of availability and non- availability of water, India can be divided into 15 Ecological
regions, ranging from dry, cold desert of Ladakh to the dry hot desert of Rajasthan, from the sub-
temperate mountain of the Himalayas to the tropical high mountain of Nilgiri.
Table 1.2. Traditional Water Harvesting Systems in different Ecological Zones of India
S.No. Ecological Zone Traditional Water Harvesting system/
structures
1. Trans- Himalayan Region Zing
2. Western Himalayan Region Kul, Naula, Kuhl, Khatri
3. Eastern Himalayan Region Aptani
4. Northern Hill Ranges Zabo, Cheo-oziihi, Bamboo- drip irrigation
5. Brahmputra Valley Dongs, Durgs /Jampois
6. Indo-Gangetic Plain Ahars-pynes, Bengal’s inundation channels,
Dighis, Baolis. Etc.
7. Thar Desert Kunds, Kundis, Baoris, Jhalaras, Nadi,
Tabas, Tankas,
Khadins, Virdas, Paars etc.
8. Central Highlands Talab, Bandhis, Saza Kuva, Johad, Naada,
Bandh, Tank,
Chandella, Bundela Tank etc.
9. Eastern Highlands Katas, Mundas, Bandhas etc.
10. Decan Plateau Cheruvu, Kohli, Tanks, Bhandaras, Phad,
Kere, etc.
11. Western Ghats Surangam
12. Western Coastal Planes Virdas
13. Eastern Ghats Korambu
14. Eastern Coastal Plains Eri, Ooranis
15. The Islands Jack WellsFig.1.10. Baori constructed in the forte of Rajasthan.
Some of the Water Conservation Systems mentioned above are being introduced below-
ZING
Fig. 1.11. Zing- the water harvesting structure of Ladakh.
Melting glaciers and snows are the only sources of water for the people residing in Ladakh
region. The people of this region make intelligent use of their limited resources and make agriculture
possible in this dry and barren land. The snow and ice melt slowly through the day and water is
available in the streams only in the evening, when it is too late for irrigation. The water in the streams
is hence led by channels to storage tanks and used the next day. These storage tanks are called as
ZING.
APTANI SYSTEM
This system is practiced in Arunachal Pradesh by Aptani tribes. The Aptani system of ArunachalPradesh  was  practiced  by  the  Aptani  tribes.  Under  this  system  the  stream  water  is  blocked  by
constructing a wall 2 to 4 m high and 1 m thick near forested hill slopes. This water is taken to the
agricultural fields through channels. The valleys are terraced into plots separated by 0.6 m high
earthen dams with inlet and outlet channels (to the next plot) that help to flood or drain the plots as
and when required.
ZABO SYSTEM
This traditional system is practiced in Nagaland. The term Zabo means ‘impounding run-off’.
Zabo is practiced in Nagaland. When rain falls on terraced hill slopes, the runoff collects in ponds in
the middle terrace. The runoff then passes through slopes where there are cattle yards, and finally
reaches the paddy fields at the foot of the hills. Thus it is through this system that not only the
irrigation of paddy fields is brought about, but the fertility of the crop- field is also improved.
BAMBOO DRIP IRRIGATION & TRICKLE DRIP IRRIGATION
Under this system the rapidly flowing water from streams and springs is captured by bamboo
pipes and transported over hundreds of metres to drip irrigate black pepper cultivation in Meghalaya.
Many bamboo pipes of varying diameters and lengths are laid to manipulate and control the flow of
water through this system of water conservation.
The Trickle Drip System is a system of irrigation that was first developed in 1960s by farmers
to check wastage of water during irrigation.
In this system water is allowed to pass through a narrow route drop by drop directly to the plant
roots. This system delivers the correct quantities of water to the roots of the plant, thereby not wasting
any of the precious water. This method of irrigation does not waste water, and allows the crops to be
adequately watered all year round. This technology was quickly adopted by the world community. By
1995 over 20 million irrigation systems were in use world wide. This technology has been changing
rapidly to correct for specific problems. The latest system on the market (the fifth generation) widens
water passages to increase water flow and create a “clog-free” system.
AHAR-PYNE
Ahar-pyne is a traditional floodwater harvesting system indigenous to South Bihar. Here the
terrain has a marked slope, the soil is sandy, groundwater levels are low and rivers flood their banks
only during the monsoon. The ahar is the catchment basin embanked on three sides, while the fourth
side is the natural slope. Pynes or artificial channels start out from the river, and meander through
fields to end up in an ahar.
TANKAS
Tankas are round or rectangular structures usually constructed to store water in Bikaner of India.
Rainwater from the roof or terrace is directed towards an opening in the floor which leads to the
tanka. The rain water thus stored in tankas is used for various purposes.
JOHADFig. 1.12. Khadin.
Johads  are  small  earthen  check  dams  that  capture  and  conserve  rainwater,  improving
percolation and groundwater recharge. This practice was started in 1984 in Rajasthan. So far some
3000 Johads have been constructed across more than 650 villages in Alwar district of the state. What
about other districts? Well other districts are also moving along the same path. This has resulted in a
general rise of the groundwater level by almost 6 metres and a 33 percent increase in the forest cover
in the area. Five rivers that used to go dry immediately following the monsoon have now become
perennial, such as the River Arvari, has come alive.
KHADIN
A Khadin, also called a dhora, is an ingenious construction designed to harvest surface runoff
water for agriculture. Its main feature is a very long (100-300 m) earthen embankment built across the
lower hill slopes lying below uplands. Sluices and spillways in the area allow excess water to drain
off to the catchment.
The Khadin system is based on the principle of harvesting rainwater on farmland and subsequent
use of this water-saturated land for crop production. First designed by the Paliwal Brahmins of
Jaisalmer, Western Rajasthan in the 15th century, this system has great similarity with the irrigation
methods of the people of Ur (present Iraq) around 4500 BC and later of the Nabateans in the Middle
East. A similar system is also reported to have been practiced 4,000 years ago in the Negev desert,
and in southwestern Colorado 500 years ago.
KUNDS OR KUNDIS
As in many parts of the country, the people of Rajasthan have learnt to live with scarcity of
water. In Churu, Bikaner, and Sikar of the state people have learnt to harvest rain water in Kunds or
Kundis. What are Kunds or Kundis?
Dome  shaped  structures  over  an  underground  tank  surrounded  with  an  artificially  paved
catchment sloping towards the centre is called as Kund or Kundis. Traditionally, these tanks were
made up of lime, which acted as disinfectant but currently scarcity and demand hassled people to
construct Kunds of cement.PANIKHETI
Fig. 1.13. Panikheti- the conservation of water on terraces.
The system of rice cultivation on terraces developed by the Angami and Chakesang tribes of
Nagaland state of the North- eastern India is called a Panikheti. Rather, Panikheti is the term applied
to the beautiful rice terraces in the North-eastern Hill Region of India. In this system of farming on
terraces, water is supplied to plants by channels that carry water from streams. About 10 to 15 cm of
water level is maintained in the fields and rest of the water is allowed to flow down to the lower
terraces. This traditional practice ensures that there is no wastage of water while protecting the rights
of farmers over the use of water.
1.4. CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF OCEAN RESOURCES
Seas and oceans provide various types of resources to human beings and habitats to numerous
species of plants and animals. They play very important roles in the economy of a nation and its
people. Still, the marine and coastal ecosystems are under severe stress due to human activities.
Hence, the conservation of these resources is very important, today.
1.4.1. Major Stresses on Marine and Coastal Ecosystems
Our  marine  and  coastal  ecosystems  are  under  heavy  stress  due  to  various  types  of  human
activities.
Major Stresses on Marine Ecosystems are Listed Below-
1. Pollution of marine water due to disposal of municipal, industrial, chemical and toxic
wastes in the sea water.
2. Dumping of various biodegradable and non- biodegradable wastes including plastics and
torn fishing nets etc. into sea water.
3. Over exploitation of living marine resources.
4. Heavy sedimentation of sea water.
5. Global  climatic  and  atmospheric  changes  induced  by  human  activities  leading  to
atmospheric pollution.6. Introduction of exotic species, in a habitat, for example introduction of Jelly fish in the
black sea.
7. Oil spills on water surface from ships and natural sources.
8. Eutrophication : A condition of enrichment of water bodies with nutrients, is called as
Eutrophication. It encourages growth of aquatic plants who utilize most of the oxygen
dissoved in water. It leads to death of aquatic animals.
Major Stresses on Coastal Ecosystems are Listed Below-
1. Increasing pressure on terrestrial and marine natural resources cause coastal degradation.
2. Dumping of wastes in coastal areas intoxicate the coastal and estuarine waters.
3. Population growth, increasing urbanisation, industrialization and tourism in coastal areas
damage coastal ecosystems.
4. Pollution  of  coastal  water  by  industrial  wastes  is  damaging  coastal  and  estuarine
ecosystems. Deaths of sea birds due to intoxication of sea-water by pesticides (DDT in
particular) and outbreak of Mina Mata disease in Japan from mercury contaminated
seafood are two examples of serious pollutions of coastal ecosystems.
5. Exploitation  of  living  resources  from  coastal  areas  is  causing  excessive  pressures  on
coastal ecosystems.
6. Contamination  of  sea  water  with  sewage  is  causing  nutrient  enrichment  of  coastal
ecosystems. It is further leading to a serious condition of eutrophication. The sewage
discharge into sea water has increased dramatically in the past three decades. Several
enclosed or semi-enclosed seas like the Black Sea are experiencing serious problem of
eutrophication.
7. The contamination of coastal water by sewage borne pathogens is causing serious public
health problems.
8. Port dredging, land filling, coastal solid waste dumps, coastal constructions, beech and
reef-mining, damage from tourism and recreation are causing serious impacts on these
ecosystems.
9. Destruction of mangrove vegetation has put severe stresses on these ecosystems.
The  salt-tolerant  plants  of  tropical  and  sub-tropical,  intertidal  regions  are  called  as
Mangrove – Vegetation, or simply “Mangrove”. Mangroves are highly productive but
extremely sensitive and fragile.
• Mangroves  save  lives  and  property  during  natural  hazards  like–Cyclones,  storm-
surges and erosion.
• Mangroves act as breeding, feeding and nursery grounds for esturine and marine
organisms.
On the Indian coastline, Andaman-Nicobar Islands and Gulf of Kachchh are the major
Mangroves.
1.4.2. Conservation and Management of Marine and Coastal Ecosystems
According  to  a  report  of  the  UNEP,  the  degradation  of  marine  and  coastal  ecosystems  has
intensified since last 30 years. The progress in the protection of these ecosystems has so far remained
very slow. Fortunately, there is an emerging concern in some parts of the globe that the loss of living
marine resources is as dangerous to the health of marine and coastal ecosystems as marine pollution.
Some  of  the  major  threats  to  these  ecosystems  that  have  been  identified  are-pollutions,overexploitation of marine living resources and loss of coastal habitats.
Major  strategies  of  conservation  and  management  of  marine  and  coastal  ecosystems  are
described below.
India has a coastline of over 7,500 km. It has about 2 million sq km area within the Exclusive
Economic Zone (EEZ). It has been authorised to explore about 150,000 sq km of marine area in the
Indian Ocean by Seabed Authority which offers immense scope for exploration and study of ocean
resources.
The Government of India created the Department of Ocean Development (DOD) in July 1981.
An Ocean Policy Statement was brought out in 1982 by this department. Some of the features of this
policy  are-  Exploratory  survey;  Assessment  and  sustainable  utilization  of  ocean  resources;
Technical  advances  geared  to  the  utilisation  and  preservation  of  the  marine  and  coastal
ecosystems;  Integrated  Coastal  and  Marine  area  Development;  and  Coastal  Community
Development.
The  Government  of  India  has  created  following  systems  for  the  conservation  and
management of marine and coastal ecosystems-
(i) Coastal Area Monitoring and Prediction System (OMAPS)-1990.
(ii) Two Coastal Research Vessels (under National Institute of Ocean Technology) namely:
Sagar Purvi and Sagar Paschimi. These vessels are meant for the monitoring of marine and
coastal pollutions for Integrated Coastal and Marine area Management.
The Integrated Coastal and Marine Area Management Programme (ICMAM) is a project
under implementation since 1997. This project has two major components- (a) Capacity building, and
(b) Development of infra structure for research and development.
THE CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT OF ICMAM INCORPORATES
(a) Development of information system for critical habitats of India such as Gulf of Khambat,
Karwar Island, Gulf of Kutch, Cochin Islands, Sunder bans, Malwan, Kadmat Island,
Gulf of Mannar, Pichavaran, Caring and Gahirmatha.
(b) Development of guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment.
(c) Development of Model Integrated Coastal and Marine Management Plans for Chennai,
Goa, and Gulf of Kutch.
On global level, India ratified the UN Convention on Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) in June 1995.
The Department of Ocean Development is a nodal agency for the implementation of the provisions of
UNCLOS in India. Soon after the enforcement of UNCLOS, some institutions like the International
Seabed Authority (ISBA) and Commission on the Limit of Continental shelf (CLCS) were formed.
1.4.3. Importance of Coral Reefs
Ridge or elevated part of a relatively shallow area of the sea floor approaching the
surface of the sea is called as coral reef.
Corals are massive wave resistant structures built largely by coral and consisting of skeletal
and chemically precipitated material. These are made by polyps i.e. animals belonging to the class
Coelenterata.
There are basically three types of coral reefs- Fringing reefs, Barrier reefs and Atoll. Thefringing reefs develop along the shoreline of an island and usually extend outwards. The barrier
reefs develop away from the shoreline and form a channel or lagoon between the reef and the
shore. The atolls are islands made of corals.
In Indian seas, coral reefs are found in the Gulf of Mannar, Pak-bay, Lakshdweep (atolls), Gulf
of Kutch, and Andaman and Nicobar sea areas. The health of coral reefs has been declining over
the past several decades. The pollution of sea water, destructive fishing practices, algal blooms,
and eutrophication, coral diseases and coral bleaching are some serious causes of depletion of
coral reefs.
Fig. 1.14. A Coral Reef
enviro_Facts : 1.2.
CORAL BLEACHING
What is Coral Bleaching?
The whitening of coral colonies due to the loss of symbiotic zooxanthellae from the tissues of polyps is called as Coral
Bleaching.
Zooxanthellae are unicellular algae that provide colour to corals. They also provide food to corals and their deaths lead to
breakdown of the symbiotic relationship between them. This breakdown of symbiotic relationship causes starvation and resultant
deaths of coral polyps. This condition exposes the white calcium carbonate skeletons of the coral colony.
There are a number of stresses or environmental changes that may cause bleaching. These causes include disease, excess
shade, increased levels of ultraviolet radiation, sedimentation, pollution, salinity changes, and increased temperatures.
Other causes of coral bleaching include -
♦ Increased exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation;
♦ Large amounts of storm water from heavy rains flooding the reef;
♦ The exposure of coral to certain chemicals or diseases;
♦ Sediments such as sand or dirt covering the coral;
♦ Excess nutrients such as ammonia and nitrate from fertilizers and household products entering the reef ecosystem.
(The nutrients might increase the number of zooxanthellae in the coral, but it is possible that the nutrient overload increases the
susceptibility of coral to diseases.)STEPS TO PROTECT CORALS FROM BLEACHING
- We should not pour gas, oil, dry cleaning fluid or other harmful chemicals into the sink, into canals or even onto the soil.
- We should recycle all batteries. When put into the trash, their toxic chemicals, such as mercury or cadmium, will leach
into the soil and water; and water finally reaches to the sea.
- We should learn about coral reefs and educate others about their ecology.
- We should inform others by writing articles for the news paper, school news magazine or other publication.
- We should Support legislation that protects the reefs.
- We should Support laws that prohibit pollutants from reaching the reefs.
- We should reduce our carbon footprint by supporting carbon neutral programmes.
- We should not drop litter or dispose of unwanted items on beaches, or in the sea.
- Everyone must recognize and make specific decisions about the costs of waste disposal. Anyone may either accept the
costs of waste treatment before it is discharged into waterways, or accept environmental impacts. Anyone can no
longer simply assume that the sea is the cheapest and most effective place to dispose of sewage, urban, agricultural
and industrial waste.
The coral reefs are most complex ecosystems found on the earth. These are found in great
concentrations between 4 degrees north and south latitudes in western portions of all major oceans.
They  generally  extend  to  about  30  degrees  north  and  south  of  the  equator.  They  develop  at  a
temperature not less than 20 degree Celsius. This is the reason why they are not found in very cold
seas.
Coral Reefs are Important in Following Ways –
(i) Coral  reefs  provide  shelter  to  the  world’s  most  colourful  fishes.  These  support  fish
production up to 2.5 lakh tonnes per year.
(ii) Coral reefs control the concentration of carbon dioxide in the lower atmosphere and in
the sea water.
(iii) Coral reefs provide different types of raw materials for industries.
(iv) Coral reefs check sea waves against going towards sea coasts by reducing their speed.
(v) Coral reefs are helpful in controlling Green House Effect as they absorb carbon dioxide.
(vi) Corals are used as medicines by human communities living along coasts.
(vii) Coral reefs form important ecosystems. They also provide food to different types of sea
animals like star fish.
1
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
DOON VALLEY PROJECT
Doon Valley (India), was facing wide spread degradation of ecosystems and falling life standards of people, about 20 years
back. A project was initiated in 1993 entitled “Doon Valley Integrated Watershed Management” so as to solve the problem of
ecological degradation and human suffering. The aims of the project were –
1. Regeneration and replenishment of forests;
2. Regeneration of water bodies;
3. Reduction of Soil Erosion through afforestation;
4. Controlled grazing.
The project was sponsored by the European Commission Association and was launched in 302 villages of Doon Valley by
Gaon Resource Management Association (GAREMA). The GAREMA has been the centre piece of the strategy of the project
which addressed the collective management of watersheds.IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
SPOILAGE : The conditions of making the land bad and useless by human activities.
CONSERVATION : Careful and judicious utilization of resources.
DEGRADATION : The condition of damage of something including natural resources.
WILDLIFE : All the life forms existing in the wild.
LAND COVER : Anything, usually vegetation which covers the soil.
DESERTIFICATION : The condition of productive land going unproductive due to human activities.
BIODIVERSITY : The species richness of an ecosystem.
INTEGRATED  WATERSHED : A  set  of  complex  activities  of  water  conservation  linked.  with  Animal
MANAGEMENT Husbandry, Community Development and Income Generation.
RECHARGING  OF  WATER : Getting back the required level of water.
LEVEL
POLYP : Animals of class Coelenterata living in seas in corals.
DYKES : Long and thick walls built underground in the bed of some stream to stop
Flooding on to a low area of land or checking the sub- surface flow of Water.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. What is the percentage of degradation of land through overgrazing?
2. How much of the tropical forests were destroyed during 1975 -90?
3. What is the full form of the abbreviation UNEP?
4. Name any one traditional Indian practice of conservation of water.
5. Make a mention of any one technology applied for recharging the ground water.
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
[2 Marks Each]
1. What do you mean by Spoilage of Landscape? How are landscapes spoilt?
2. Mention any two causes of the spoilage of landscape.
3. State any two needs for adopting control measures to check the spoilage of landscape.
(ICSE specimen Question)
4. List any two control measures to check the spoilage of landscape.
(ICSE specimen Question)
5. How do industries contribute to the spoilage of land?
6. How would you define the term ‘desertification’? Mention any two natural causes of land degradation.
(ICSE-2005; 2006)
7. What is desertification? What are its consequences?
8. Define the term Land Reclamation. How is it useful to mankind?
9. Mention any two causes of desertification. How can the desertification be controlled?
10. How are soil erosion and spoilage of landscape inter-related?
11. (i) Explain the term Land reform.
(ICSE 2010)
(ii) State two advantages of planning land-use.
(ICSE 2010)
12. Why is water called as the elixir of life?
13. Why is there an urgent need to understand the limit of our water resources?
14. Which place is known as the wettest place on earth but still the same faces severe drought-conditions? Mention reasons behind
this tragedy.
15. Name the causes that have accelerated the fresh water crisis in India.
16. How is agriculture supposed to be a great exploiter of fresh water?
17. What does the management of water mean?18. What is a Watershed? Where is the operation of watershed ideal?
19. Why is the management of watershed considered to be very important?
20. Mention any two objectives of watershed management.
(ICSE Specimen Question)
21. What role does water harvesting play in water conservation?
22. What are Johads?
(ICSE-2008).
23. (i) Name any two water harvesting systems practiced in India.
(ICSE-2007).
(ii) What is Trickle drip irrigation. State any two advantages of such an irrigation system.
(ICSE 2010)
24. What are Gully Plugs? Where are they used?
25. What are Kunds or Kundis, and Zings?
26. Briefly explain the method of water harvesting in Mizoram.
(ICSE-2005)
27. What is rain water harvesting? Mention any two methods of rain water harvesting?
28. List any two advantages of rain water harvesting.
29. What are percolation pits?
(ICSE- 2008)
30. Mention any two ways through which oceans are useful to us.
(ICSE – 2007)
31. How are the ocean-resources threatened?
32. What is meant by the term coastal zone?
33. What is a coral reef? Give one example of it.
34. State the importance of coral reefs in a marine biome.
(ICSE Specimen Question)
35. Name two human activities which are having adverse impacts on coral reefs.
36. Where do coral reef ecosystems occur in India? Why are coral reefs important?
37. What is meant by Panikheti?
38. Why are the marine ecosystems under threat?
39. Define Eutrophication.
40. Name the institute in India where research on coral reefs is being conducted. What is its contribution to the coral reef-
ecosystems?
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 Marks Each)
1. Explain briefly various factors that lead to the spoilage of landscape.
2. What are the steps that can be taken to check the spoilage of landscape?
3. Describe briefly the man-made causes of desertification.
(ICSE-2005)
4. What are different technologies that can be developed for the recharge of the Ground Water? Describe any two of such
technologies.
5. Discuss any two methods of rainwater harvesting.
(ICSE – 2008)
6. Discuss the success of water harvesting in ancient India. Write a few success stories on it.
7. “Watershed Management can succeed only when it is based on foundation of both qualitative and quantitative knowledge of
ecological processes going on in the ecosystem” Explain.
8. Describe the importance of coral reefs in the marine ecosystem.
(ICSE – 2007)
9. Describe the importance of Coastal Ecosystem.
10. Write the role of coral reefs in biodiversity preservation and ecotourism. What is Coral Bleaching?
(ICSE-2008)
11. What are the aims of conserving marine and coastal ecosystems? Write steps of conservation of marine ecosystem.
12. What are major stresses on oceanic resources? Describe the efforts of the Government of India for the conservation and
management of marine and coastal ecosystem.13. How is the Marine Ecosystem being degraded day by day? What should be done for its conservation?
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple choice type questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. The area of land surface on earth is –
(a) 135 m sq km
(b) 230 m sq km
(c) 140 m sq km
(d) 410 m sq km
2. The extent of soil degradation on earth through deforestation is –
(a) 580 m ha
(b) 850 m ha
(c) 380 m ha
(d) 530 m ha
3. The species richness at any place is called as –
(a) fauna
(b) flora
(c) biodiversity
(d) forest
4. The percentage of soil degradation caused by dumping of wastes is –
(a) 12
(b) 10
(c) 8
(d) 11
5. The Integrated Watershed Development also incorporates –
(a) development of community
(b) education of children at school
(c) improvement of crops
(d) pest control
B. Fill in the blanks
1. …………includes forest and other vegetation.
2. Low efficiency irrigation schemes often cause…………… .
3. Floods, earthquakes and volcanic eruptions are natural causes of spoilage of……… .
4. Bunds and terraces provide mechanical……………………… .
5. Around……………m ha of the world’s dry land were degraded up to the year 2000.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. 35, 2. 220 m ha, 3. UNEP = United Nations Environment Programme, 4. Tankas and Johads, 5. inverted Tube wells,
check dams.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1. (c), 2.(a), 3.(c), 4. (a), 5.(a)
B. Fill in the blanks
1. Land cover, 2. Wastage of Water 3. Land, 4. Protection, 5. 3600 m ha
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
1.1 EXPERIMENTATIONCollect samples of soil from three different places and find out rates of percolation of water through these samples. You will
need funnels, water, and three different soil samples like sand, gravel, dirt or so.
Make layers of soil in different ways in each of the funnels and make records of sequence of different layers in each funnel.
Now, pour the clean water through funnels one by one and note the time taken in percolation for all the three cases. Collect a sample
of dirty water from a nearby drain and pour one by one through these funnels. Compare the qualities of the dirty water after
percolation through different funnels. Now write the project report in proper format incorporating following headlines –Project Title,
Objective,  Materials,  Methodology,  Interpretation  of  data  and  Analysis,  Conclusion,  Acknowledgements  and
References.
1.2. SURVEY
Do a survey of traditional systems of water harvesting (like dams, check dams, Tankas, johads etc.) in your locality. Try to find
out –
1. How many people use this system?
2. What are the patterns of the use of water?
3. What is the general quality of water being harvested?
4. What are the factors that are adversely affecting the quality of water harvested?
5. What improvements in your opinion, can be made to improve that traditional method for maximum benefits?
Write a complete report and show it to your teacher.
1.3. DRAWING / PAINTING
Make a poster on the basis of the knowledge gained while doing the project -2, under the title – Water Harvesting in……
(Name of the area)

CHAPTER2
Conservation and Management :
Forest, Grassland and Semi-
Arid Ecosystems
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction
u Stress on Forest, Grassland and Semi-Arid Ecosystems
u Stress on Forest Ecosystems
u Stress on Grassland Ecosystems
u Stress on Semi-Arid Ecosystems
u Conservation and Management of Forests
u Global Scenario of Conservation and Management of Forests
u National Scenario of Conservation and Management of Forests
u Conservation and Management of Forests by Local Communitiesu Principal Measures to Conserve Forests
u Legal Provisions
u Conservation and Management of Grasslands
u Conservation and Management of Semi-Arid Ecosystems
2.1. INTRODUCTION
We know that an ecosystem is the interacting unit of the biotic community and the physical
environment  at  any  place.  It  may  be  terrestrial  or  aquatic.  The  terrestrial  ecosystems  are  the
ecosystems on land. These may be forests, grasslands and semi- arid ecosystems of various types. As
for aquatic ecosystems, they are – fresh water and marine. We already know about these ecosystems.
Forests, grasslands and semi- arid ecosystems are formations that cover the land surface and
protect it. Various types of forests are spread across the globe and so are grasslands. The Prairies of
Canada and U.S.A., the Pampas of South America, the Steppes of Europe and Asia and the Veldts of
Africa are major types of grasslands. The semi- arid ecosystems are the ecosystems that are partly
dry and partly wet. Most of these ecosystems comprise very less and peculiar types of vegetation.
Scanty flora and fauna are principal characteristics of these ecosystems. The increasing economic
activities  of  human  beings  are  putting  severe  stresses  on  these  ecosystems.  Most  parts  of  these
ecosystems are severely stressed due to overexploitation and mismanagement. In this lesson, we are
going  to  study  about  the  stresses  on  forests,  grasslands  and  semi-  arid  ecosystems,  and  their
conservation and management.
2.2. STRESS ON FOREST, GRASSLAND AND SEMI-ARID ECOSYSTEMS
Some of the major stresses on forests, grasslands and semi- arid ecosystems and their underlying
causes are mentioned below.
2.2.1. Stress on Forests
Forests perform various productive and protective functions. Checking the erosion of soil and
spread of deserts are two of their major protective functions. Forests absorb Carbon Dioxide. Thus
they acts as carbon dioxide sinks. The growth of human population created fresh requirements of
land for housing, agricultural expansion, farming practices, development of pastures, mining,
human settlements, and industrial developments. All the requirements were fulfilled by clearing of
vast tracts of forests across the globe. Over harvesting of industrial wood, fuel wood, other forest
products, overgrazing and many natural factors like insect pests, diseases, forest fires and disasters
created additional stress on forests.
FOREST FIRES: CAUSES, IMPACTS AND CONTROL MEASURES
The event of something burning is called as fire. An uncontrolled fire often occurring in wild
land areas, but which can also consume houses or agricultural resources is called as forest fire.
Wildfires tend to be most common and severe during years of drought and occur on days of strong
winds. With extensive urbanization of forest lands, these fires often involve destruction of suburban
homes located in the wild land urban interface, a zone of transition between developed areas and
undeveloped  wild  land.  The  term  Forest  Fire  is  also  called  as  wildfire  which  refers  to  all
uncontrolled fires that burn surface vegetation (grass, weeds, grain fields, brush, chaparral, tundra,and forest and woodland); often these fires also involve structures. In addition to the wildfires,
several million acres of forest land are intentionally burnt each year under controlled conditions to
accomplish some silvicultural or other land-use objective or for hazard reduction.
CAUSES OF FOREST FIRES
Forest fires may be caused by many different types of factors. These factors are mentioned
below-
A. Natural causes- fires caused by lightning, and fires caused by volcanic eruption,
B. Accidental causes- fires caused by sparks from wheels of trains or certain locomotives, and
other causes
C. Negligence – These causes include –
(i) Fires caused by cigarette stubs or matches- along roadways, - in rural areas, - in wooded
areas, and along railway lines.
(ii) Fires caused by agricultural and forestry activities- for the clearing of uncultivated land,
for the clearing of plant residue (forestry and agricultural processing), for the renewal of pastures, for
the burning of stubble and for the clearing of road and railway embankments.
(iii)  Fires  caused  by  other  forms  of  negligence-  fires  caused  by  recreational  and  tourist
activities, - fires caused by the firing of fire-crackers and rockets, blasting of landmines or explosive,
- fires caused by the use of motor, flame, electric or mechanical devices, - fires caused by military
manoeuvres or shooting exercises, fires caused by the burning of waste in illegal dumps, fires caused
by bad maintenance of electrical lines or by the breakage or falling of wires, and fires caused by
negligence not otherwise defined.
D. Arson- These include-
(i) Fires caused in connection with profit seeking- Examples of these causes include - fires
caused by the creation or renewal of pastures at the expense of forests; fires caused by the will to
regain  agricultural  terrain  at  the  expense  of  forests  for  cultivation  or  to  activate  funding  from
European Union; fires caused with the intent of earning from the removal of vegetation for the purpose
of agricultural cultivation ; fires caused with the intent of earning from the removal of vegetation for
the purpose of building speculation; fires caused with the intent of seeking advantage (opening of
forestry trails, agricultural operations to save on labour, destruction of forestry mass); fires caused by
occupational questions related to laborers hired by local administrations; fires caused with the intent
of  destroying  by  fire;  badly  executed  forestry  operations;  fires  caused  with  the  intent  of  being
included in firefighting efforts; fires caused by inappropriate activity referable to poaching; fires
caused to obtain products deriving from fire passage; fires caused by organized crime.
(ii) Fires due to manifestations of protest, resentment or insensitivity toward forests- fires
caused as revenge or retaliation against public administration; fires caused by conflicts between or
revenge against owners; fires caused as protest against limitations imposed in conservation areas;
fires caused for fun or games by minors; fires caused with the intent of devaluing tourist areas; fires
caused  by  matters  relating  to  political  contrast;  fires  caused  by  terrorist  acts,  fires  caused  by
dissatisfaction; social dissent, behavioral disturbances (pyromania and mythomania).
(iii) Fires due to dubious causes - fires caused by arson not otherwise defined.
Common causes of forest fire include lightning, human carelessness, slash-and-burn farming,
arson, volcano eruption, pyroclastic cloud from active volcano, and underground coal fire. Heat
waves, droughts, and cyclical climate changes such as El Niño can also dramatically increase the
risk of wildfires.There are two types of forest fire i) Surface Fire and ii) Crown Fire
Surface Fire - A forest fire may burn primarily as a surface fire, spreading along the ground as
the surface litter (senescent leaves and twigs and dry grasses etc) on the forest floor and is engulfed
by the spreading flames.
Crown Fire - The other type of forest fire is a crown fire in which the crown of trees and shrubs
burn, often sustained by a surface fire. A crown fire is particularly very dangerous in a coniferous
forest because resinous material given off burning logs burn furiously. On hill slopes, if the fire starts
downhill, it spreads up fast as heated air adjacent to a slope tends to flow up the slope spreading
flames along with it. If the fire starts uphill, there is less likelihood of it spreading downwards.
IMPACTS OF FOREST FIRES
Forest Fires cause wide ranging adverse ecological, economic and social impacts. In a nutshell,
forest fires cause following adverse impacts-
v Loss of valuable timber resources and depletion of carbon sinks
v Degradation of water catchment areas resulting in loss of water
v Loss of biodiversity and extinction of plants and animals
v Loss of wild life habitat and depletion of wild life
v Loss of natural regeneration and reduction in forest cover and production
v Global warming resulting in rising temperature
v Loss of carbon sink resource and increase in percentage of CO  in the atmosphere
2
v Change in micro climate of the area making it unhealthy living conditions
v Soil erosion affecting productivity of soils and production
v Ozone layer depletion
v Health problems leading to diseases
v Indirect effects on agricultural production: Loss of livelihood for the tribals as approximately
65 million people are classified as tribals who directly depend upon collection of non-timber forest
products from the forest areas for their livelihood.
After a countrywide study in 1995, the Forest Survey of India gathered data on fire fires. These
data attribute about 50 percent of the forest area as fire-prone. Out of 63 million ha of forests in India
3.73 million ha can be presumed to be affected by fires annually. At this level the annual losses from
forest fires in the country has been estimated at Rs.440 crores.
IMPACTS OF FOREST FIRES ON BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
Forest fires also pose serious health hazards by producing smoke and noxious gases, as the
events in Indonesia after the forest fires on the islands of Sumatra and Borneo in 1977 have shown.
The burning of vegetation gives off not only carbon dioxide but also a host of other, noxious gases
(Green house gases) such as carbon monoxide, methane, hydrocarbons, nitric oxide and nitrous oxide,
that lead to global warming and ozone layer depletion. Consequently, thousands of people suffered
from serious respiratory problems due to these toxic gases. Burning forests and grasslands also add to
already serious threat of global warming. Recent measurement suggest that biomass burning may be a
significant global source of methyl bromide, which is an ozone depleting chemical.
PREVENTION AND CONTROL MEASURES FOR FOREST FIRES IN INDIA
The Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India issued guidelines for prevention
and control of forest fires to all states in June 2000. Some of those important guidelines or measuresof prevention and control of forest-fires in India are –
1. Identification and mapping of all fire-prone area.
2. Compilation and analysis of data-base on the damage due to forest fire.
3. Installation of Forest Danger Rating Systems and Fire-Forecasting Systems.
4. Items of forest protection to be treated as a Plan Item in order to raise their profile and
thereby increase their Budget Allocation.
5. All preventive measures are to be taken before the beginning of the fire season like summer
season.
6. Recruitment  of  a  Nodal  Officer  to  coordinate  with  various  agencies  including  the
Government of India on issues of forest-fire.
7. A  ‘Crisis  Management  Group’  should  be  constituted  at  the  state  headquarters,  district
headquarters, and at block levels to monitor the situations during fire period, coordinate
various preventive and control measures, and arrange adequate enforcement of men and
materials in case of any eventuality.
8. Communication  network  to  be  set  up  for  quick  flow  of  information  and  movement  of
materials and man-power to the fire site.
9. JFM Committees and Forest Protection Committees are to be actively involved in the
prevention and control of forest fires. Other people living in and around forest areas and
getting benefits from the forest should also be involved actively.
10. Regular  training  of  Government  Staff  and  communities  as  Fire  –Fighters  should  be
organized by the government.
11. Public awareness should be created against ill effects of forest fires- a Fire -Week should
be celebrated to create mass awareness.
12. Legal Provisions for fire prevention and control should be implemented forcefully.
Precautions: The followings are the important precautions against fire:
1. To  keep  the  source  of  fire  or  source  of  ignition  separated  from  combustible  and
inflammable material.
2. To keep the source of fire under watch and control.
3. Not to allow combustible or inflammable material to pile up unnecessarily and to stock the
same  as  per  procedure  recommended  for  safe  storage  of  such  combustible  or
inflammable material.
4. To adopt safe practices in areas near forests viz. factories, coalmines, oil, stores, chemical
plants and even in household kitchens.
5. To incorporate fire reducing and fire fighting techniques and equipment while planning a
building or coal mining operation.
6. In case of forest fires, the volunteer teams are essential not only for fire fighting but also to
keep watch on the start of forest and sound an alert.
7. To arrange fire fighting drills frequently.
The Government of India has implemented a Master Plan called as Forest Fire Control and
Management. This Master Plan is a blend of modern and Traditional methods and Technologies for
which the Government has made provisions for the allocation of adequate funds. These are –Fig. 2.1. Spraying Fire- retardant Chemical over Forest Fire by a Helicopter.
(a) Building up of a strong communication network of wireless system and satellite phone.
(b) Arrangement of effective transportation.
(c) Improved fire-resistant clothing.
(d) Fire- finders.
(e) Fire Tender or Tractor- trolley mounted with water tanker.
(f) Back pack pumps.
(g) Fire fighting machines, helicopters, fire extinguishing materials, Fire- retardant sprays by
helicopters etc. and other technological innovations.
enviro_Facts : 2.1.
In the Constitution of India, the subject of forests is on the Concurrent List. It means that the Central Government and State
Governments are both competent to legislate on the issue of forest – fires etc. Issues relating to policy, planning, and finance are
primarily the responsibly of the Government of India. On the other hand the field administration of forests is the responsibility of the
different State Governments. Fire Prevention and Control Measures are therefore carried out by the State Departments of Forest.
In India, forests are protected and managed through well prepared Forest- Working Plans, and Prevention and Control of
Forest- fires has always been at the place of priority. Some of the important prescriptions included in the working plans are –
employing traditional practices of fire control like:
- Creation and maintenance of fire-lines, fire-tracks, controlled burning, engaging fire-watchers during fire seasons etc.
- Villagers inhabiting in and around forest areas are legally supposed to assist the forest department staff in extinguishing
fires.
The Government of India implemented a UNDP Project during 1985-1990 to address the problem of resource damage from
uncontrolled forest-fires. A pilot project was launched in Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra where severe fires had damaged about 50
percent of the forest area. The Haldwani and Chandrapur forest-fire incidents were reduced up to 90 percent through the pilot
project. An air operation wing was also formed in 1991 through which latest fire-fighting technologies including helicopters and
fixed wing aircrafts are being applied in needing areas. UNDP has provided two helicopters and aircraft along with spare parts etc
and services of these were taken extensively in the states of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan, Punjab, and Delhi.
Most of the forests of the world have been destroyed over the period of last thirty years. The
Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) and the United Nations Environmental Programmes
(UNEP), have declared that the rate of destruction of tropical forests is 11.3 m ha per year.
2.2.2. Stress on Grasslands
About 260,000 species of plants are found on earth out of which major part is occupied bygrasses. These form a dense cover on soil and protect it from being washed away by water during
rains or blown away by wind. More than 40,000 ha of land are during rains affected annually by
severe wind and water erosions. The maximum loss of the top soil in India is caused due to the
destruction of grass cover on earth. But, human pressure on grasslands has put the earth surface
under  critical  conditions.  So  far,  man  has  altered  virgin  landscapes  by  destroying  vast  areas  of
grasslands and has converted these areas into croplands. Much of the grassland ecosystems have been
destroyed  through  building  of  large  dams,  mining  and  other  industrial  activities,  water  logging,
salination, urban encroachments and construction of settlements etc. In addition, the introduction of
exotic grass species has caused the destruction of many grassland ecosystems.
Fig. 2.2. A Grassland Ecosystem.
2.2.3. Stress on Semi- arid Ecosystems
An  ecosystem  which  receives  low  annual  rainfall  (250-500mm)  is  called  as  Semi-arid
ecosystem. The climate of semi-arid ecosystem remains intermediate between the desert climate and
humid climate. These ecosystems are relatively more vulnerable to human activities due to excessive
pressure of conversion into crop fields and reclamation for different purposes. The extraction of
ground water for irrigation and domestic purposes is causing water scarcity in many of these areas.
Overgrazing  by  sheep  and  goats  has  put  severe  stress  on  the  health  of  soils  of  these
ecosystems.
WHAT IS OVERGRAZING? AND WHAT IS ITS IMPACT?
Overgrazing  can  be  defined  as  grazing  plants  before  they  have  recovered  from  a  previous
grazing. When a plant is grazed severely, it uses energy stored in its roots to support regrowth.
As this energy is used, the roots die back. The dying of roots depends on the severity of grazing.
This root dieback is not a bad thing. It adds organic matter to the soil, which increases soil porosity,
the  infiltration  rate  of  water  and  the  soil’s  moisture-holding  capacity.  After  enough  leaves  have
regrown, the roots will regrow as well.
IMPACTS OF OVERGRAZING
A plant is overgrazed when it’s re-grazed before the roots recover. Overgrazing can reduce rootgrowth by 90%. Because there’s less root growth, pastures are less productive.
Fig. 2.3. A- Overgrazing.
Fig. 2.3. B- Impacts of overgrazing.
Following are some of very dangerous impacts of overgrazing -
1. Soils have less organic matter and become less fertile due to overgrazing.
2. Porosity of soils decreases due to overgrazing.
3. The infiltration rate and moisture-holding capacity drop due to overgrazing.
4. Desirable plants become stressed, while weedier species thrive in these harsher conditions.
Weeds do not make the land unhealthy. They appear because the land is unhealthy. Overgrazing is
often the cause of this adverse and undesirable condition.Fig. 2.4. Even one cow in a big pasture will overgraze plants if she is kept there long enough.
5. Animals graze selectively. Given a chance, they will overgraze. The newest growth is the
most palatable, nutritious forage in the pasture. Even one cow in a big pasture will overgraze plants if
she’s kept there long enough.
6. Overgrazing isn’t a function of animal numbers. It’s a function of time. Overgrazing happens
when animals are kept in a paddock too long or brought back too soon.
7.  As  overgrazing  destroys  the  vegetation  completely  the  entire  area  becomes  prone  to
desertification and heavy soil erosion that may cause siltation of any river leading to severe floods
that may claim large number of lives and great property.
CONTROL ON OVERGRAZING
1. To stop overgrazing, producers must move livestock out of a pasture before regrowth of plants
begins again. During the periods of fast growth, overgrazing will occur if livestock are kept in a
paddock for more than three or four days.
2.  Herders  need  to  make  sure  that  they  don’t  bring  the  animals  back  before  plants  have
recovered.
3. Overgrazing can be stopped with 8-10 paddocks. When growth of plants is fast, recovery
periods of four to six weeks may be adequate.
4. Economic sustainability can’t be achieved without environmental sustainability. The first step
to achieving environmental sustainability is to stop overgrazing. That’s essential when one is ranching
for profit.
5.  Overgrazing  by  cattle  indicates  towards  irresponsible  attitudes  of  cattle  owners.  Hence,
awareness or some short of legislation to stop overgrazing is urgent for protecting the land against the
consequences of this incidence.
These  ecosystems  harbour  restricted  vegetation  during  the  favourable  growth  seasons.  Crop
plants grown in these ecosystems need repeated irrigation due to which the deposits of salt takes
place  in  the  soil  and  make  it  unfit  for  further  use.  Technological  operations,  building  of  roads,
tourism, recreation etc. can have considerable impacts on the viability of these ecosystems.
2.3. CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF FORESTS
Protection, preservation and development of forests together with the sustainable use of
forest resources are called as conservation and management of forests.
The need and importance of conservation and management of forests is being felt the world over.Different countries are trying to conserve and manage their forests. Governments have framed their
Forest Policies and have enacted laws to protect forests whereas local communities in different parts
of the world are making their own efforts for the protection and management of their forests by
making plans of their own.
Forests control and affect the global environment also. Hence, nations of the world have planned
to protect global forests through joint efforts.
2.3.1. Global scenario of Conservation and Management of Forests
Forests retain much of the rain water either through the stems and leaves or through roots of
trees. This is why forests are called as sponges. They control and maintain global as well as local
environmental processes. The Stockholm Conference of 1972, values forests as ‘largest, most
complex and self- perpetuating ecosystems”.
The conference made following recommendations-
♦ Countries of the world should strengthen basic and applied research for improved
forest planning and management with emphasis on environmental functions of forests,
♦ Countries  of  the  world  should  modernise  their  forest  management  concepts  by
including  multiple  functions  and  reflecting  the  cost  and  benefits  of  the  amenities
provided by forests,
♦ Countries of the world should incorporate environmental values in land use and forest
management, and
♦ Countries of the world should establish appropriate monitoring systems for continuous
surveillance of the forest cover of the earth.
Following the Stockholm Conference (1972), many countries in the world banned cutting of
trees in view of conservation and management of their forests and the devastating natural calamities
like landslide and flooding. The Kyōto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change  (UNFCCC)  has  focussed  attention  on  the  role  of  forests  in  controlling  world
climates and changes occurring in them. Parties to UNFCCC have reached to an agreement on rules
and modalities for accounting the roles of forests.
Now  the  world  community  is  focussing  on  the  Sustainable  Forest  Management  (SFM).
According to this management scheme, countries of the world should utilize their forest resources
keeping in minds the needs of future generations. By 2000, nine international initiatives were
launched incorporating the development of implementation of schemes in 85 percent forests on the
global level. An Intergovernmental Panel on Forests (IPF) and Intergovernmental Forum on
Forests (IFF) have worked for common management, conservation and sustainable development of
all types of forests under United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development (1997-2000). A
United Nations Forum on Forests (UNFF) was formed in October 2000.
The IUCN  (International  Union  for  Conservation  of  Nature  and  natural  resources)  and  the
WWF(World Wide Fund for nature) together with the Food and Agricultural Organisation(FAO),
are surveying the status of forests of the world and are launching projects for their conservation and
management.
2.3.2. National Scenario of Conservation and Management of Forests
Forests of India have been under continuous pressure due to a number of factors. According to areport of the World Bank (2005), some major factors that cause pressures on India’s forests are:
| Growth of human population; expansion of agriculture;
| Utilization of forest land for industrialization;
| Clearing of forests for mega river-valley projects;
| Overgrazing (up to 78%);
| Fire- risks;
| Shifting cultivation, and different types of encroachments on forest land etc.
The Government of India has been conducting a number of conservation programmes, and it is
due to these efforts that the Forest Cover in India has increased by six percent between 1999 and
2001. The national target of the forest cover in the country is 30%. For achieving up to this target the
government has formulated a number of plans and projects for which surveys of forest areas and
forest cover are being done from time to time.
Any effort to conserve and manage forests at national level, involves Survey and Assessment of
Total Forest Area and the Forest Cover, at the initial stage. What is a forest area? A Forest Area is
the area of land recorded as forest in revenue records or proclaimed to be forest under a forest
law or Act. In other words, we may define a ‘Forest- area’ as an area recorded as forest in the
government records. On the other hand ‘Forest Cover’ is different from the forest area. It is the total
forest area recorded by the technology of Remote Sensing through a satellite. Thus the record of forest
cover is based on the capability of Remote Sensing Satellite Sensor. It is completely independent of
the legality of land use or land ownership. The data of forest cover is provided by the Forest Survey
of India (FSI). The Forest Cover of India, as per the Report of the Forest Survey of India- 2001 is
675,538 sq Km (excluding non- forest and scrub areas). It constitutes 20.55 percent of the total
geographical  area  of  the  country.  A  National  Afforestation  and  Eco-development  Board  was
constituted in August 1992, in order to expand forest cover.
Table 2.1. Forest Cover in India as Per the Forest Survey of India- Report 2001
The Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India, constituted the National Forest
Commission on 7 February 2003. This commission reviews the working of Forest and Wildlifesector. Now, if someone wants to divert a forest land for non forest purposes, he is bound to take
permission from the Central Government under the Forest (conservation) Act, 1980.
The  Indian  Government  introduced  Joint  Forest  Management  (JFM)  in  1990.  Under  this
programme, about 45000 village communities in 21 states, are managing more than11 million ha of
the degraded forests.
The Central Government has formulated an Integrated Forest Protection Scheme by merging
“Forest Fire Control and Management”, and “Bridging  of  Infra  structure  Gaps  in  Forestry
Sector in eastern region and Sikkim”. This scheme has been extended to all the states and Union
Territories during the tenth Five Year Plan.
2.3.3. Conservation and Management of Forests by Local Communities
Human Communities living near forests or in forest- villages tend to care forest- resources as
most  parts  of  their  livelihood  depend  on  these  resources.  It  was  after  independence  that  the
Government of India started managing its forests through its own management systems. Thus, forests
came directly under the ownership of States and it became a little difficult for communities to use the
forest-resources.
The growing population of human beings and of the livestock- accompanied with the demands
from  industries,  caused  pressures  on  forests  from  many  sides.  These  pressures  caused  severe
depletion of India’s Forest Resources, and the traditional Government –run System of management of
forests was declared to be ineffective by many environmentalists.
The persistent encroachments by local communities, and other parties, and Peoples’ movements
in many parts of the country stimulated the Government to develop a new system of forest management
which emphasizes on the participation of the local people.  This  new  system  of  management  is
officially called as Joint Forest Management or JFM.
The practice of management of forest resources jointly by the Forest Department and the
local communities is called as Joint Forest Management. It is officially abbreviated as JFM. The
system of Joint Forest Management entitles local communities in sharing of forest products in lieu
of their works pertaining to the protection and management of forest resources.
The communities living near forests remain dependent on them for their livelihood. On the other
hand, now they are being increasingly aware of the roles of forests in the environment. Hence, they
tend to oppose every stress on their forests caused by contractors and other people including the
government officials. The CHIPKO (1973, Uttarakhand), the APPIKO (1983, Karnataka), the Social
Fencing  of  Shivalik  Hills  (1986),  the  Silent  Valley  Movement  (1963,  Kerala)  and  Joint  Forest
Management (J.F.M.) in West Bengal (1981, Midna Pur, Bankura and Purulia districts), are some
examples of conservation and management of forests through the efforts of local communities in India.
Inspired by the J.F.M. in Bengal the Joint Forest Management was introduced in India, on government
level in 1990.
enviro_Facts : 2.2
There are several examples of management of forests by local communities on the global level also. More than 500,000 ha of
forests in Vietnam have been given in the charge of indigenous people fighting for their rights on forests. In Philippines too, a
system of Integrated Protected Areas have been developed which protects the biodiversity involving local communities in the
management of forests. In Jharkhand (India) too, the local tribal people (including tribal women) in different areas, have started
taking charge of the conservation and management of local forests.2.3.4. Principal Measures to Conserve Forests
Fig. 2.5. Felling of trees should be matched by plantation of trees.
1. The extraction of timber should be done judiciously and it should not interfere with the
local watersheds.
2. Felling of trees should be minimized and it should be matched by plantation of trees.
3. The use of fire wood should be discouraged and alternate sources of energy should be
promoted.
4. Modern techniques of promotion, protection and regeneration of forests like promotion of
silvi-culture, disease and pest management, weed control, breeding of endangered tree
species and application of techniques of tissue culture should be promoted.
5. Forest conservation and management rules should be enforced properly.
6. All the interference in forests should be banned completely.
7. Poaching and hunting of wild animals should be banned.
2.3.5. Legal Provisions for Conservation and Management of Forests in India
The Indian forests are protected through a definite Forest Policy since 1894, which has been
revised  twice,  in  1952  and  in  1988,  respectively.  It  is  aimed  at  protection,  conservation  and
development of forests.
Besides the Indian Forest Policy, our forests are also protected by a number of legal provisions
like Indian Forest Act,1927; Forest(conservation)Act,1980;Forest (conservation) Rules,2003 etc. In
July 2002, the Ministry of Environment and Forest made a separate wing entitled Animal Welfare
Division. The central government has established State Animal Welfare Boards in 24 states and
union  territories.  Another  step  forward  is,  the  National  Afforestation  and  Eco  –Development
Board, which was established in August 1992.
2.4. CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF GRASSLANDS
The  conservation  and  management  of  grasslands  are  brought  about  through  a  number  ofpractices.  These  practices  are  -  control  on  overgrazing,  Afforestation,  watershed  development,
adoption of appropriate cropping pattern and adoption of proper land management practices.
2.5. CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF SEMI- ARID ECOSYSTEMS
Fig 2.6. A Semi–arid Ecosystem.
Semi- arid ecosystems are usually governed by the extent of availability of water. Most of these
are dependent on rain–water which often remains irregular and unreliable. The rain fall pattern is
badly disturbed due to cutting of trees and clearing of vegetation cover. Under these conditions most
of the water needed for irrigation is extracted out from the ground. The underground water table is
being depleted due to increasing number of bore- wells.
The semi –arid ecosystems can be conserved and managed through following ways
♦ Conservation of habitat through afforestation, and ban on illegal mining -Activities.
♦ Control on conversion of cultivable land for other purposes.
♦ Water rationing and ban on extraction of ground water for
♦ irrigation. Construction of check - dams and, development and management of watersheds.
♦ Adoption of social forestry and agro forestry techniques. Social forestry is the practice of
growing trees and shrubs in village common lands and waste lands in view of production
of fuel wood and fodder. The agro forestry is the practice of growing commercially
useful trees with minor canopy on field boundaries.Fig. 2.7. A Check Dam.
2
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
The Forest Management Council or the Van Panchayat is one of the community institutions that are officially recognised and
legally supported under the IFA (Indian Forest Act) 1927. The Forest Management Councils in India were formed in 1931, after great
and repeated agitations by the people living in and around forests, against the new rules and regulations on forest –use, were imposed
on the people.
As most of our forests are located on hills and mountains, people living in these areas have sufficient knowledge about the
conservation and management of forests. The British people, who agreed to create Van Panchayat, after continued agitations by the
people living in hill forests, were aware of the capacity of people for the management of forests. This was, probably the reason why
the British did not include Van Panchayats under the Indian Forest Act of 1927. But, the repeated amendments in this Act have
reduced  the  powers  of  VPs,  and  have  brought  them  under  the  control  of  the  Act.  This  is  not  being  liked  by  many  Indian
environmentalists. How ever VPs are functioning very well in some states of India under the district administrations. Uttaranchal is
one such state.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
Group of different species of organisms at a certain place is called as a
BIOTIC COMMUNITY :
community or the biotic community.
SEMI- ARID : Partly dry and partly wet.
The first major international conference on environmental issues, which was
STOCKHOLM CONFERENCE : held in Stockholm, Sweden, in 1972 and was sponsored by the UN.
An international treaty which was adopted in 1997 in order to set concrete
targets for developed countries to reduce the emissions that contribute to
global warming, also known as Climate Change. It is a supplementary treaty
KYŌTO PROTOCOL :
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change
(UNFCCC). It went into force in February 2005. more than 130 countries
are party to it.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Name the grasslands of –
(a) Canada
(b) America
(c) Europe and Asia
(d) Africa
2. Mention any two direct causes that threaten our forests.
3. Who had sponsored the Stockholm Conference in 1972?
4. How has the Stockholm Conference valued the global forests?
5. When was the National Forest Commission constituted?
6. When was the Indian Forest Policy formulated for the first time?
7. Name any one factor responsible for the degradation of grasslands?
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(2 Marks Each)
1. What do you know about the semi –arid ecosystem?
(ICSE 2008)
2. Define conservation and management.3. Write full forms of -
(a) IGFF
(b) CITES
(c) UNFCCC
(d) JFM.
4. Give a brief account of the steps taken up by the Central Government for the Conservation and Management of forests in India.
5. How are our forests conserved and managed by the local people?
6. What are the legal provisions for the protection of forests in India?
7. Mention two measures for the control of overgrazing.
(ICSE 2005)
8. Mention two natural causes of Forest Fires.
(ICSE 2005)
9. What are carbon dioxide sinks? Explain how.
(ICSE 2006)
10. Mention any two protective functions of forests.
(ICSE 2006)
11. Mention any two tribal practices aimed at conservation of Forest Resources.
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 Marks Each)
1. What do you know about the conservation and management of forests in India? Suggest any three appropriate measures.
2. How do human beings threaten our grasslands and semi–arid ecosystems? Suggest conservation measures two each for these
ecosystems.
3. How can Afforestation practices like the social forestry and agro forestry, reduce different types of stresses on our forests?
IV.OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple choice type questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. The FAO and UNEP have assessed that the rate of annual destruction of forests in the world is –
(a) 11.3 mha
(b) 15.1 mha
(c) 13.5 mha
(d) 21.3 mha
2. The ecosystem relatively more vulnerable to human activities is –
(a) forest ecosystem
(b) grassland ecosystem
(c) arid ecosystem
(d) semi –arid ecosystem
3. The Stockholm Conference was held in the year –
(a) 1972
(b) 1971
(c) 1977
(d) 1911
4. The United Nations Forum on Forests was formed in the year –
(a) 2000
(b) 1974
(c) 1985
(d) 2006
5. The Indian Forest Act was enacted in the year –
(a) 1972
(b) 1927
(c) 1995
(d) 2000
B. Fill in the blanks
1. An ecosystem is an interacting unit of the biotic community and the ……environment.
2. Over grazing by cattle like sheep and goat cause stress on…… .3. The depletion of grasslands causes degradation of…… .
4. The United Nations Forum on forests was formed in…… .
5. The communities living near forests remain dependent on them for their…… .
C. True / False questions
Write T against the statement which is true and F against the statement which is false.
1. The semi –arid ecosystems are purely dry ecosystems.
2. Overgrazing is an important reason of degradation of grassland ecosystems.
3. Some countries are imposing restrictions on the export of wood.
4. The CHIPKO movement was launched in Karnataka in the year 1973.
5. Water logging and salination of soil are necessary for the development of grassland ecosystems.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. (a) prairies, (b) pampas, (c) steppes, (d) veldts,
2. (i) over harvesting of industrial wood, (ii) overgrazing,
3. United Nations, 4. ‘as large, most complex and self- perpetuating ecosystems’
5. 7 February 2003, 6. 1894, 7. overgrazing
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1. 11.3 mha, 2. (d), 3. (a), 4. (a), 5. (b).
B. Fill in the Blanks
1. physical, 2. grassland ecosystem, 3. land, 4. Oct. 2000, 5. livelihood,
C. True / False
1. F, 2. T, 3. T, 4. F, 5. F.
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act For Environment
2.1. SURVEY
Select an area measuring 1sq m in a grassland. Find out how many different types of grass species are growing in the area.
Count the number of plants of each species and write these numbers in your note book. Repeat the same practice at three different
places in the same grassland and note down the numbers of plants in the same manner. Now, you can easily calculate the density and
the frequency of different species of grass in the field. Write the experiment properly in your Record Book.
You can calculate the density and frequency through the following formulae –
(i) Density = no. of sq. units in which a particular species occurred / area of one sq. unit
(ii) Frequency = no. of sq. units in which a species occurred / no. of sq. units examined.
2.2. TEAM WORK
Arrange a discussion with some of your friends in the class on – Beautification of the School Campus. Make appropriate
plans and write them down in your note book. Include all possible measures and decide how to implement your plans including all
possible requirements and their arrangements. Receive guidelines from your teacher after the approval of the Principal of your
school. Write a project –report. This project should be implemented as a work of the eco – club of your school.

CHAPTER3
Conservation
and Management: Soil
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction
u What is Conservation of Soil?
u Practice of Conservation and Management of Soil
u Proper Tillage and Land Use Management
u Alternate Cropping
u Judicious Use of Inputs
u Use of Manure, Bio-Fertilizers and Bio-Pesticides
u Prevention and Control of Soil Erosion
u Forests and Their Importance to Human Beings
u Conservation of Forests
u Joint Forest Management
u Afforestation
3.1. INTRODUCTIONWe know that, soil is the loose material which covers land surface of the earth, supports the
growth of plants and acts as a habitat for numerous types of organisms. It is a loose combination
of  physical  (organic  and  inorganic)  and  biotic  materials.  The  development  of  soil  (called  as
Paedogenesis) takes thousands of years. So, it can be called as a non- renewable resource. In spite of
being  a  non-  renewable  natural  resource,  soil  is  under  heavy  stress  due  to  bad  practices  of
agriculture; overuse of inputs like water, fertilizers and pesticides; deforestation; overgrazing; over-
development  and  pollutions.  In  this  chapter,  we  are  going  to  study  about  the  conservation  and
management of soil.
3.2. WHAT IS CONSERVATION OF SOIL?
Fig. 3.1. Degraded land.
Making the best use of soil, together with protecting it from all types of factors that may
cause its degradation is called as soil conservation.
Soil is a vital life support system. No life is possible without soil as plants, our food- providers,
can not grow without it. It provides shelter to numerous types of micro organisms and animals.
The conservation of soil is needed urgently because degradation of soil across the world has
become  a  matter  of  particular  concern  today.  According  to  a  report  of  the  United  Nations
Environmental Programme, it is estimated that about 13 percent of land in Asia and Pacific has been
degraded due to clearance of forests and introduction of invasive species.
The agricultural mismanagement is causing chemical soil degradation which is seen in the form
of acidification and salinization of soil. Out of about 1977 m ha dry land in Asia, more than one half
is affected by desertification. All these cases of land degradation are related directly or indirectly to
the land use practices like agricultural expansion and intensive agriculture.
3.3. PRACTICES OF CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF SOIL
The  judicious  use  of  soil,  maintenance  of  its  fertility  and  prevention  of  its  loss  by  all
possible means, is called as Conservation and Management of Soil.
The Conservation and Management of Soil involves a number of practices. These practices
are–
♦ Proper tillage of land and Land use Management,
♦ Judicious use of inputs like water, fertilizers, and pesticides,
♦ Use of manure like compost and green manure,
♦ Use of bio- fertilizers on the place of synthetic chemical fertilizers,♦ Use of bio- pesticides on the place of synthetic chemical fertilizers, &
♦ Prevention and control of soil erosion through various different methods– like, plantation
conservation of grasslands and forests and, through Social Forestry and Agro- forestry.
Let us discuss these practices of conservation and management of soil one by one.
3.3.1. Proper Tillage and Land use Management
Tillage in traditional terms is the preparation of soil for growing crops. It is accomplished by
using a plough, tilling machine, tractor etc. which cuts into the ground and turns over the soil.
Fig. 3.2. Modern devices for Land-Tilling. : A-Tractor-tiller B. Garden-Land cultivator.
Farmers get following benefits from tilling the lands-
♦ Tillage removes the weeds that grow in crop fields,
♦ It makes the soil loose by breaking up the surface layers,
♦ It provides a bed of soil which holds sufficient moisture continuously over many years,
♦ Proper tillage facilitates the aeration of soil. Aeration provides free circulation of oxygen
and  water,  results  in  the  increased  biological  activities  in  the  soil  and  allows  the
Nitrogen Fixing Bacteria to do their duties.
♦ It contributes to the health of plants by inhibiting plant diseases and by discouraging the
developments of various types of insects that harm plants.
Proper tillage practices help the conservation of soil in many ways. The uphill and downhill
direction of furrows promotes soil erosion. But, by ploughing across the slope, water is directed to
enter into the soil. This type of ploughing is known as contour ploughing.
The utilization of a particular type of land for a suitable purpose is called as land use
management.  Lands  are  utilized  for  growing  crops,  developing  pastures,  growing  forests,
developing and protecting wildlife, constructing houses etc. But all types of land should not be used
for all types of purposes. For example, a fertile and well drained land should be used for agriculture
only and forest lands should not be used for agriculture.
3.3.2. Alternate CroppingFig. 3.3. Root-nodules on roots of a leguminous plant.
Growing different crops in a set pattern of alternation is called as Alternate Cropping.
Most often it is also called as the Crop Rotation, in which crops are grown in a particular field in a
cyclic  fashion.  In  winter,  cover  crops  are  sown  to  protect  the  soil.  Often  leguminous  (like  Pea,
Soybean, Pigeon Pea etc.) crops are sown as cover crops and these crops help in the enrichment of
soil with nitrogen. The roots of leguminous crops allow a number of nitrogen fixing bacteria to live in
their nodules and to fix nitrogen for them. This process is called as Biological Nitrogen Fixation.
There is an un-usual leguminous plant called Sesbania rostrata. This plant has nodules on its stems in
addition to nodules on roots. Farmers use it as Biofertilizer crop.
In an Alternate Cropping pattern, leguminous crops follow non-leguminous crops. The plants of
leguminous crops have tap root systems that draw water and minerals from the lower layer of soil. On
the other hand, the non- leguminous crops have fibrous root systems that draw water and minerals
from the superficial layer of soil. Thus the fertility of soil is retained and promoted through alternate
cropping pattern or through the pattern of the crop rotation.
3.3.3. Judicious use of Inputs
Water, fertilizers, and pesticides are principal inputs of agriculture. These inputs, if not in
adequate quantity, create such conditions which are harmful to the whole soil system.
Flooding of fields with water, during irrigation causes an increase in the salt content of the soil
and makes it saline. A saline soil is always unfit for the growth of plants.
Fertilizers too, damage soil composition if applied in excess quantities. Many of the synthetic
fertilizers used in our fields for increasing crop production, are unsafe and seriously harmful to thesoil and soil organisms if applied in excess quantities. The excessive application of these chemicals
increases salt content of the soil.
The synthetic pesticides applied on crop plants cause serious soil pollution and kill various
types of soil organisms inhabiting it. Many of the synthetic pesticides are non- biodegradable and
hence persist in the soil; for longer periods.
3.3.4. Use of Manure, Bio-fertilizers, and Bio-pesticides
Manure  is  a  mixture  of  organic  materials  prepared  under  natural  conditions  through  the
decomposition of bio- wastes and agricultural residues. It is often done in a deep pit called as
compost. Hence, the manure so produced is also called as compost. It is very useful for crops as well
as for soils. It improves soil fertility by adding important nutrients to it, improves soil composition
and upgrades its ability of water retention. It is through the preparation of manure that the problem of
disposal of agricultural waste and waste from animal husbandry can be solved in proper ways.
Manure may be of different types- like composts, worm composts and green manures compost
is the manure prepared from crop residues and animal wastes in scientifically dug compost pits either
through  aerobic  or  anaerobic  ways.  Manure  or  similar  fertilizers  are  also  called  as  Organic
Fertilizer.
enviro_Facts : 03
GREEN MANURE
The Sunn hemp (Crotolaria juncea) and Dhaincha (Cymopsis tetragonoloba), are plants utilized for preparing green
manure. When plants like Sunn hemp etc. are ploughed in soil and allowed to decompose under natural conditions, they are
converted into green manure. Crops like paddy, maize, cotton or wheat are grown after mixing green manure into the soil.
FARM YARD MANURE
The manure prepared through the decomposition of crop residues layered for some days on the floor of cattle sheds, is called
as farm yard manure. It usually contains Nitrogen (0.5%), Phosphorus pentaoxide (0.2 %) and Potassium (0.5 %).
Bio-fertilizers are specific types of living organisms like symbiotic bacteria, Cyanobacteria
(also called as blue green algae), sea weeds etc. that can bring about nutrient enrichment of soil in
many different ways. Anabaena azollae, Anabaena cycadae, Azolla pinnata and Nostoc are different
plants that enhance the productivity of soil when added to it.
Bacteria like Rhizobium fix nitrogen for plants and Nostoc, Azolla, and Cyanobacteria that are
great nitrogen fixers, are used as bio- fertilizers in crop fields, most frequently.
Bio-fertilizers are useful in the Conservation and Management of soil in following ways –
(i) These are helpful in the replenishment and enhancement of soil fertility.
(ii) These fertilizers improve water holding capacity, aeration, porosity and drainage of soil.
(iii) These fertilizers are helpful in reclamation of unproductive soils.
(iv) These fertilizers are helpful in preventing soil erosion.
Bio- pesticides are biological agents that are helpful in controlling plant pests.
There are basically two types of bio-pesticides: Bio-herbicides and bio- insecticides.
Bio-herbicides are living organisms which destroy herbs. These may be insects that feed onspecific weeds or micro organisms that may cause diseases in weeds. Here are some examples –
(1) Mycoherbicide:  This  is  derived  from  a  fungus  called  as  Phytophthora palmivora.  It
controls the growth of milk weed vines in citrus.
(2) Cochineal insect (Cactoblastic cactorum): This insect eats away cactus plants. This is
being introduced in controlling overgrowth of cacti in India and Australia.
Recently, transgenic plants of vegetables like tomato and tobacco have been developed through
genetic engineering. These plants are so engineered genetically that these can develop resistance
against herbicides. Garlic, Cloves, Cedar wood oil etc. have been tested indigenously and have been
found useful in repelling certain insect- pests. Besides these, Pheromones like Xanthenes and Plant
Hormones like Auxins, gibberellins etc. are also used as bio- pesticides.
The natural enemies of particular insects and certain other substances that are used for
killing or repelling insect pests in a particular area are called as bio- insecticides. There are
following categories of bio- insecticides –
(1) Disease causing organisms (pathogens), parasites and predators.
(2) Pheromones or insect hormones.
(3) Natural Insecticides like tobacco extract, neem oil, and specific bacterial toxins (called as
Thuriosides).
(4) Viral bio- insecticides like Bioculoviruses that affect insect pests.
(5) Fungal agents or different fungi, that are useful in controlling insect pests.
(6) Insect insecticides like Lady Bird and Praying Mantis that eat away many types of insects
(Fig. 3.4).
Fig.3.4. Lady Bird (a) and Praying Mantis (b) work as insect- insecticides.
The use of synthetic chemical pesticides causes health hazards and ecological imbalances. In
view of this, the Government of India has adopted Integrated Pest Management Programme (IPM) as
main strategy of plant protection. The IPM is an eco- friendly strategy which aims at minimum use of
synthetic pesticides. The Government of India spent Rs. 1,500 lakh as grant –in –aid during 8th and 9th
Five Year Plans for the establishment of 30 state laboratories for the development of biopesticides
and biological pest control agents. The consumption of pesticides came down from 72,133 MT during1991-92 to 41,020 MT during 2003-04 due to the IPM.
3.3.5. Prevention and control of Soil Erosion
The depletion of top productive soil by the agency of water or wind is called as soil erosion.
Some farming methods also cause soil erosion through these agencies. Those farming methods are –
Mono agriculture or Mono cropping, wrong methods of ploughing or tilling the land, overgrazing by
cattle like goats and sheep, deforestation etc.
There are many different methods of controlling soil erosion. Those methods are –
(i) Rotation of crops or Alternate Cropping,
(ii) Construction of proper drainage or outlets to carry away the water of fields without causing
soil erosion,
(iii) Plantation – like Afforestation, reforestation, Compensatory Plantation etc.
(iv) Control on overgrazing,
(v) Terracing on hill slopes to check direct flow of water,
(vi) Adoption of proper methods of cultivation,
(vii) Putting ban on the farming on land near river banks.
A. PLANTATION
Growing plants on hill slopes and uncovered land is called as plantation. Plantation checks
soil erosion in following ways –
(a) Canopies of trees check raindrops against falling on the earth surface directly. Thus the
velocity of raindrops is reduced due to which they become unable to break the layer of the top soil.
(b) Roots of plants and trees bind soil particles and do not allow them to flow away with water.
B. CONSERVATION OF GRASSLANDS
Grasses have highly branched fibrous root systems. Hence, they are effective in binding soil
particles  and  in  checking  the  erosion  of  soil.  The  overgrazing  in  grasslands,  cause  complete
destruction  of  grasses.  Thus  overgrazing  is  a  menance.  Soil-erosion,  loss  of  fertility  and
desertification are three most serious impacts of overgrazing. If overgrazing is accompanied by lack
of water, or drought, the whole grassland may get converted into a desert. Hence, conservation of
grasslands is necessary for the conservation of soil. The conservation of grassland is done through
following ways –
(i) Overgrazing should be stopped so as to allow the growth of grasses,
(ii) If grazing is allowed, it should be on rotational basis,
(iii) Shrubs and weeds should be removed from the grassland, as these impose adverse impacts
on the development of grasses,
(iv) The loss of soil and water from the grassland should be checked effectively.
3.4. FORESTS AND THEIR IMPORTANCE TO HUMAN BEINGS
Let  us  have  a  fresh  look  on  forest.  In  fact,  a  forest  is  a  complex  and  dynamic  ecosystemconsisting mainly of trees that form a buffer for the earth to provide shelter to innumerable life
forms and to provide food to them. The trees which make up the main area of the forest create a
special environment which, in turn, affects the kinds of animals and plants that can exist in the forest.
FORESTS ARE MOST IMPORTANT TO HUMAN BEINGS. HOW? LET US RECALL
SOME MAIN POINTS –
1. Forests provide social, economic, medicinal, and environmental benefits to human beings.
2. They provide raw materials to many industries.
3. Forests absorb carbon dioxide and act as major sinks for it. In this way forests maintain
gaseous balance in nature and control air pollution as well. Thus, forests play important roles in
reducing warming of the earth or the global warming.
4. Human beings are connected to all life forms including vast varieties of animals and plants.
Forests provide not only shelter to animals, they provide them food and protection to them as well.
Thus forests help in human survival indirectly by helping the survival of animals and plants or the
biodiversity.
5. Forests have been the homes of many tribal cultures where these cultures flourished and
developed.
6. Forests are helpful in controlling soil erosion and thus protecting the agriculture which is the
major source of food for human beings. If soil erosion is checked, the siltation of rivers will be
checked and the danger of floods will automatically be removed up to major extent.
In spite of their great values, human beings are destroying forest at a fast rate. Felling or cutting
of forest trees is called as deforestation. The rate at which deforestation is being done today is of
great concern. Currently, 12 million hectares of forests are cleared annually. At this rate all the moist
tropical forest could be lost by the year 2050, except for isolated areas in Amazonia, the Zaire basin,
as well as a few protected areas within reserves and parks. Some countries such as Ivory Coast,
Nigeria, Costa Rica, and Sri Lanka are likely to lose all their tropical forests by the year 2010 if, no
conservation steps are taken.
FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE BASIC CAUSES OF DEFORESTATION-
(i) Conversion  of  forests  and  woodlands  to  agricultural  land  to  feed  growing  numbers  of
people;
(ii) Development of cash crops and cattle ranching, both of which earn money for tropical
countries;
(iii) Commercial logging (which supplies the world market with woods such as meranti, teak,
mahogany and ebony) destroys trees as well as, it opens up forests for agriculture;
(iv) Felling of trees for firewood and building material; the heavy chopping of foliage for
fodder; and heavy browsing of saplings by domestic animals like goats.
To compound the problem, the poor soils of the humid tropics do not support agriculture for
long. Thus people are often forced to move on and clear more forests in order to maintain production.
CONSEQUENCES OF DEFORESTATION
1. Forests act as a major carbon store because carbon dioxide (CO ) is taken up from the
2
atmosphere and used to produce the carbohydrates, fats, and proteins that make up the tree. Whenforests are cleared, and the trees are either burnt or rot, this carbon is released as CO . This leads to
2
an increase in the atmospheric CO  concentration. CO  is the major contributor to the greenhouse
2 2
effect. It is estimated that deforestation contributes one-third of all CO  releases caused by people.
2
2.  Trees  draw  ground  water  up  through  their  roots  and  release  it  into  the  atmosphere
(transpiration). In Amazonia, over half of all the water circulating through the region’s ecosystem
remains within the plants. With removal of part of the forest, the region cannot hold sufficient water.
The effect of this could be a drier climate.
3. With the loss of a protective cover of vegetation more soil is lost.
4. Deforestation leads to soil erosion, which causes Silting of water courses, lakes and dams.
5.  Destruction  of  forests  results  into  Extinction  of  species  which  depend  on  the  forest  for
survival. Forests contain more than half of all species on our planet - as the habitat of these species is
destroyed, so the number of species declines.
6.  Deforestation  leads  to  Desertification.  The  causes  of  desertification  are  complex,  but
deforestation is one of the major contributing factors.
3.5. CONSERVATION OF FORESTS
A  number  of  programmes  are  being  carried  on  by  the  government  and  non-  government
organizations on different levels. Some of these programmes are being described below -
3.5.1. Joint Forest Management (JFM)
India framed its Forest Policy in 1988. The Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF- 1990)
passed  several  subsequent  resolutions  through  which  it  stressed  on  the  needs  of  ‘People’s
Participation’ in the management of natural forests. It has been mentioned in the Policy Document that
local communities should be motivated to take active parts in the protection and preservation of
forests and to derive their share of benefits from them.
The practice of management of forest resources jointly by the Forest Department and the
local  communities  which  would  entitle  them  in  sharing  of  forest  produce  in  lieu  of  their
participation  in  protection  and  management  of  forest  resources  is  called  as  Joint  Forest
Management or JFM..
Under JFM, Forest Protection Committees are formed between villagers and forest officials.
These committees safeguard and protect the forest areas that are prone to illicit felling. Villagers elect
members  of  these  committees  from  among  themselves.  Now,  there  are  separate  Village  Forest
Committees as well. These committees are constituted by villagers themselves and members of these
committees remain responsible for rejuvenation of forests through the conservation of soil moisture
and  plantation.  As  of  March  2006,  there  were  1,06,482  committees  managing  an  area  of  about
22million hectare in 28 states and Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar islands.
Recent years have seen a number of changes in the management of forests. There is a major shift
towards a more decentralized and people oriented forestry. Responding to scarcities, villagers have
started organizing themselves to reverse degradation and restore productivity. The result has been a
renewal of degraded ecosystems.
The destruction of natural forests for timber, cropland, fuel- wood, pasture, urbanization etc.
have had an impact on many poor rural families who are dependent on forest resources for fuel,
fodder, food, medicine, and housing etc. The deterioration of forests has accelerated soil erosion,sedimentation of rivers, increased flooding, and has overtaxed the land’s capacity to regenerate and
sustain.  It  is  now  being  recognized  that  local  communities  need  to  be  involved  in  establishing
sustainable Forest Management Systems.
3.5.2. Afforestation
The generation of fresh artificial forests by planting trees is called as Afforestation. It is
important for the conservation of soil by increasing vegetation cover on land together with solving the
problem  of  fuel  wood,  fodder  and  rural  energy.  The  government  of  India  set  up  the  National
Afforestation  and  Eco-  Development  Board  (NAEB)  in  AUGUST  1992.  The  aims  of  the
establishment of this board were-
(a) The Promotion of Afforestation,
(b) Plantation of trees,
(c) Ecological Restoration, and
(d) Eco- development
The NAEB has developed various schemes for the promotion of Afforestation and development
of Management Strategies. It formulates different programmes and implements them. It has set up
Ecological Task Force (ETFs) of Ex-service Men who are employed in remote areas. The ETFs are
responsible to undertake restoration of degraded ecosystems by measures like Afforestation, soil
conservation etc. The Social Forestry and Agro- forestry are two ambitious schemes which are
based on the community participation under the Joint Forest Management Programme.
Fig. 3.5. Trees plantation along roadsides.
A. SOCIAL FORESTRY
Plantation of trees in village common lands, along road sides and along rail tracks etc.,
useful in view of production of fuel wood and fodder, is called as social forestry.
The term ‘Social forestry’ was first used in 1976 by the National Commission on Agriculture,
Government of India. It was then that India embarked upon a social forestry project with the aim of
checking deforestation and making use of all unused and fallow land.Government forest areas that are close to human settlement and have been degraded over the
years due to human activities needed to be afforested. Trees  were  to  be  planted  in  and  around
agricultural fields. Plantation of trees along railway lines and roadsides, and river and canal banks
were carried out. They were planted in village common land, Government wasteland and Panchayat
lands.
Social forestry also aims at raising plantations by the common man so as to meet the growing
demand for timber, fuel wood, fodder, etc, thereby reducing the pressure on the traditional forest
area. This concept of village forests to meet the needs of the rural people is not new. It has existed
through the centuries all over the country but it was now given a new character.
With the introduction of this scheme the government formally recognized the local communities’
rights to forest resources, and is now encouraging rural participation in the management of natural
resources. Through the social forestry scheme, the government has involved community participation,
as part of a drive towards afforestation, and rehabilitating the degraded forest and common lands.
This need for a social forestry scheme was felt as India has a dominant rural population that still
depends largely on fuel wood and other biomass for their cooking and heating. This demand for fuel
wood will not come down but the area under forest will reduce further due to the growing population
and increasing human activities. Yet the government managed the projects for five years then gave
them over to the village panchayats (village council) to manage for themselves and generate products
or revenue as they saw fit.
At present in almost all the countries where social forestry programmes have been taken up, both
commercial  and  non  commercial  farm  forestry  is  being  promoted  in  one  form  or  the  other.
Individual farmers are being encouraged to plant trees on their own farmlands to meet the domestic
needs of the family. In many areas, this tradition of growing trees on the farmland already exists. Non-
commercial farm forestry is the main thrust of most of the social forestry projects in the country today.
It is not always necessary that the farmer grows trees for fuel wood, but very often he is interested in
growing trees without any economic motive. He may want it to provide shade for the agricultural
crops; to act as wind shelters; to promote soil conservation or to use his wasteland.
COMMUNITY FORESTRY
Another  scheme  taken  up  under  the  social  forestry  programme  is  the  raising  of  trees  on
community land and not on private land as in farm forestry. All these programmes aim to provide for
the entire community and not for any individual. The government has the responsibility of providing
seedlings and fertilizer but the community has to take responsibility of protecting the trees. Some
communities manage the plantations sensibly and in a sustainable manner so that the village continues
to benefit. Some others take advantage and sell the timber for a short-term individual profit. Common
land being everyone’s land is very easy to exploit. Over the last 20 years, large-scale plantation of
Eucalyptus, as a fast growing exotic tree, has occurred in India, making it a part of the drive to
reforest the subcontinent, and create an adequate supply of timber for rural communities under the
augur of ‘social forestry’.
Planting  of  trees  on  the  sides  of  roads,  canals  and  railways,  along  with  planting  on
wastelands is known as ‘extension’ forestry. Under this project there has been creation of wood
lots  in  the  village  common  lands,  government  wastelands  and  panchayats  lands.  Schemes  for
afforesting degraded government forests that are close to villages are being carried out all over the
country.OBJECTIVES OF SOCIAL FORESTRY
Social forestry, schemes that have been started all over the country have made a considerable
difference in overall forest cover in a short time. Afforestation outside the conventional forest area
is done for the benefit of rural and urban communities. The main objectives of Social Forestry are to:-
1. Improve the environment for protecting agriculture from adverse climatic factors,
2. Increase the supply of fuel wood for domestic use, small timber for rural housing, fodder for
livestock, and minor forest produce for local industries,
3. Increase the natural beauty of the landscape; create recreational forests for the benefit of
rural and urban population,
4. Provide jobs for unskilled workers,
5. Reclaim wastelands, and
6. To raise the standard of living and quality of life of the rural and urban people.
MISSION OF SOCIAL FORESTRY
♦ To  carry  out  a  need  based  and  time  bound  programme  of  afforestation  with  special
emphasis  on  fuel  wood  and  fodder  development  on  all  degraded  and  denuded
lands/forests.
♦ Afforestation of abandoned Jhoom lands and mined areas.
♦ Linear strip plantation of fast growing species on sides of public roads, rivers, streams
and irrigation canals.
♦ Afforestation on unutilized lands under State/Corporate, institutional or private ownership.
♦ Generation of Green belts in urban/industrial areas.
♦ Creation of Shelter belt (generally more extensive than the wind breaks) for the purpose of
shelter from wind and sun, covering areas larger than a single farm on a planned pattern.
♦ Generation of Farm forestry in the form of raising rows of trees on bund or boundaries of
fields and individual trees in private agricultural land as well as creation of wind breaks
round a farm or orchard by raising one or two lines of trees.
♦ Raising flowering trees and shrubs mainly to serve as recreation forests for the urban and
rural population.
♦ Elicit  people’s  participation  involving  women  and  young  people  in  conservation  of
forests, wildlife and environment.
♦ Environmental awareness generation and celebration of vanamahotsava,  environment
day, wildlife week etc.
BENEFITS FROM SOCIAL FORESTRY
1. The waste lands near villages and semi urban areas can be conserved and developed
through this programme.
2. The problem of fuel wood and fodder in rural areas can be solved through social forestry.
3. The pressure on existing forests can be reduced through this programme.
4. It helps in the protection of soil from soil erosion.
5. It provides housing facilities to local birds and animals.
B. AGROFORESTRY
The practice of growing crops between rows of trees is called as Agro- forestry. Tea- and
coffee  farms  are  important  examples  of  this  practice  in  which  tea  and  coffee  bushes  are  grownbetween rows of trees having less canopy areas. Cropping between rows of trees like Coconut, Sal,
Teak etc. and growing different types of trees like Papaya, Kusum etc. on demarcation lines of fields
yield additional benefits to farmers.
The  practice  of  agro-  forestry  has  been  traditionally  adopted  in  India  in  the  form  of  Jhum
cultivation. How ever, this is not an environmentally sound practice as it involves clearing of bushes
and trees in a particular area and growing crops in the ash mixed soil, after burning those bushes and
trees.
The benefits from agro-forestry are listed below-
Fig. 3.6. A Tea-farm dotted with Trees is an example of Agroforestry.
1. This practice provides additional benefits to farmers by increasing their income,
2. Trees provide shelter to numerous birds that eat away insect pests of crops,
3. This practice is important as it is helpful in checking soil erosion and increasing moisture
content of air over the crop fields.
The practice of agro forestry requires adequate knowledge about nature and demands of
different crops together with a complete knowledge about different trees that are to be
combined in the agro forestry system.
4. Agro forestry is helpful in improving soil fertility as leaves of trees falling on the ground
decompose and increase soil fertility.
3
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
“Earth Eco Task Force” of ex-servicemen has been active in Pithoragarh, Uttaranchal. In addition to their earlier activities
in Rajasthan, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh, it undertakes ecological restoration work in selected environmentally
degraded areas, particularly in unapproachable and hostile territories. The “Forest Survey of India Report” (1993) which was
based on satellite images, showed that our forest cover had increased from 6,00,000 sq. km (1990-1991) to 6,40,107 sq. km in
1993. The afforestation work has been specially speeded up during the last some years and over 30 lakh hectares have been
afforested since then. Besides, 3760 lakh seedlings have been distributed for plantation on private lands. The World Bank isactively helping both technically and financially in the implementation of various afforestation projects. These include Arawali
project, Indira Gandhi Canal Area Afforestation Project, Dhanbad Project, Kulu Manali Project, Western Ghats and
Andhra Pradesh Afforestation Project and Greening of Haryana Project etc.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
CONSERVATION  AND : The judicious use of soil, maintenance of its fertility and prevention of its loss
MANAGEMENT OF SOIL by all possible means, is called as conservation and management of soil.
DESERTIFICATION : The process of conversion of productive land into unproductive and dry land
(or desert) is called as desertification.
BIO FERTILIZER : The biological agents or substances that improve the fertility of soil, are called
as bio fertilizers.
BIO- PESTICIDES : The biological agents or substances of biological origin that can kill or repel
pests, are called as bio pesticides.
TILLAGE : Preparation of soil for growing crops accomplished by using a plough which
cuts into the ground and turns over the soil.
TRANSGENIC PLANTS : Genetically engineered crop plants resistant to pesticides/pests, are called as
transgenic plants.
PHEROMONES : Insect hormones usually secreted during their sexual activities to attract the
opposite sex are called as Pheromones.
SOCIAL FORESTRY : Plantation of trees in village common lands, waste – Lands, along rail tracks,
along road sides etc. is called as social forestry.
AGRO- FORESTRY : Plantation of trees on demarcation lines of fields and in tea / coffee farms is
called as agro forestry.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. What type of natural resource is soil. Renewable or Non- renewable?
2. What is the Land Use Management? Answer in one sentence.
3. Name any one Nitrogen Fixing Bacteria.
4. Name any one bio- herbicide.
5. Name any one insect which acts as bio-insecticide.
6. Which of the following trees cannot be combined in agro- forestry?
(a) banyan
(b) papaya
(c) coconut
(d) palm
7. What help do agro forestry trees provide to the environment besides adding to the income of farmers?
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(2 marks each)
1. What do you mean by Conservation of Soil? List any two indigenous methods of soil conservation.
(ICSE 2008)
2. How does excess use of inputs cause harm to the soil?
3. How are the applications of manure, bio-fertilizers and bio- pesticides helpful in the conservation of soil?
4. Describe in brief any two practices that are helpful in the prevention and control of soil erosion?
5. What is Joint Forest Management? How, in your opinion, is it helpful in the proper Conservation and Management of our Forest
Resources?
6. Write Note on Joint Forest Management (JFM).
(ICSE 2008)
7. What are Forest Protection Committees ?(ICSE 2007)
8. Mention two objectives of JFM (Joint Forest Management).
(ICSE 2006, 2008)
9. Mention any two ways by which Social Forestry is useful to us.
(ICSE 2008)
10. What is Social Forestry? In what ways is it beneficial to
(a) rural populations
(b) environment?
11. (i) Define agro forestry.
(ICSE 2007)
(ii) State any two advantages of agroforestry.
(ICSE 2010)
12. Write any two protective Functions of Forests.
(ICSE 2008)
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 marks each)
1. What do you mean by conservation and management of soil? Describe in brief some important practices for the conservation
and management of soil?
2. What is Forest Conservation? How is it linked with soil conservation? Describe any two important practices of management of
forests.
3. Explain Importance of Forests to Mankind.
(ICSE 2007)
4. “The primary objective of Social Forestry was recommended by the National Committee on Agriculture, Government of India in
1976.” Mention Six objectives of this agricultural programme.
(ICSE 2006)
5. Briefly describe the process of composting. State any two advantages of compost.
(ICSE 2010) [Hint: Elabarate on the basis of your study in previous classes]
6. Explain any three causes and three effects of soil erosion.
(ICSE 2010) [Hint : Elaborate on the basis of your study in previous classes.]
7. Overgrazing is a menace. Explain three impacts of overgrazing. Discuss any three measures to control this menace.
(ICSE 2010)
8. What are organic fertilizers? State any two advantages of using them.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. Tillage is accomplished by using a…
(a) tube well
(b) plough
(c) harvester
(d) combine
2. The utilization of a particular type of land for a suitable purpose is called as….
(a) soil erosion
(b) development of pasture
(c) land use management
(d) drainage
3. Nodules are found on the roots of….
(a) banana
(b) papaya
(c) leguminous plant
(d) azolla
4. The root system found in a non- leguminous plant is…
(a) fibrous root system(b) tap root system
(c) no root system
(d) both tap and fibrous
5. Many of the synthetic pesticides are…
(a) biodegradable
(b) non-biodegradable
(c) fertilizers
(d) herbicides
B. Fill in the blanks
1. By ploughing across the slope, the water is allowed to …… into the……… .
2. Proper tillage practices facilitate the aeration of……… .
3. Nitrogen fixing bacteria live inside the …… of leguminous plants.
4. Alternate cropping may also be called as crop………… .
5. Leguminous crops have…… root system.
C. True / False
Write T against the statements that are True and F against the statements that are False.
1. Water, fertilizers and pesticides are principal inputs of agriculture that should be applied in plenty.
2. Fertilizers too damage soil composition if applied in excess quantities.
3. Manures are inorganic materials which are prepared through the decomposition of under natural conditions.
4. Transgenic plants are developed through genetic engineering.
5. Pheromones are plant hormones or phytohormones.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. non- renewable, 2.The utilization of a particular type of land for a suitable purpose is called as land use management.,3.
Rhizobium, 4.Cochineal insect (Cactoblastic cactorum), 5.Lady Bird, 6. (a) banyan, 7.agro forestry trees provide shelter
to birds and animals.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1. (ii), 2. (iii), 3.(iii), 4.(i), 5. (ii)
B. Fill in the blanks
1. enter, ground 2.soil, 3. root- nodules, 4. rotation, 5. tap
C. True / False
1. F, 2.T, 3. F, 4.T, 5. F.
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
3.1. SURVEY
Do a survey of the area nearby your school and observe cases of soil erosion. Discover all possible causes of soil erosion in
each case and prepare a project on Soil Conservation and Management in……… (Name of the area). Write a project report.
3.2. DISCUSSION
Organise a discussion through the eco-club of your school on ‘Roles of grasslands in soil conservation’.
3.3. FIELD WORK
Contact the Forest Officer of your district and find out about the Social forestry and Agro Forestry programmes being
implemented in the district. Prepare a report on your visit.

CHAPTER4
Conservation
and Management:
Wildlife
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction
u Wildlife in Distress
u The Global Scene
u The Indian Scene
u Causes of Loss of Species of Wildlife
u Need of Conservation and Management of Wildlife
u Measures of Conservation and Management of Wildlife
u National Parks
u Wildlife Sanctuaries and Bio-Reserves,
u Breeding Programmes for Endangered Species
u Prevention of Poaching, Hunting and Bio-Piracy
u Enforcement of Legal Provisions4.1. INTRODUCTION
The word “wild” relates to “the nature” and “life” relates to “living organisms”- plants, animals
and micro- organisms. Thus, Wildlife is a broad term which incorporates all the undomesticated
organisms of the biosphere.
The term wildlife is often restricted to wild animals. In this case, it means just the animals living
in the wild. But, in broad sense, the term wildlife comprises nearly half of the environment. Its next
half is the physical environment.
All the species of organisms inhabiting a particular area (land or water) are together termed as
BIODIVERSITY or Biological Diversity of that area. In other words, “Species-richness of a place is
called as its biodiversity.” According to the world Resource Institute, IUCN and UNEP (1992) -
“Biodiversity is the totality of genes, species, and ecosystems in a region.”
Habitat destruction, extensive mining, deforestation, hunting and poaching, pollution and climate
change are acting as potential causes of the loss of biodiversity today. (Elaborate these causes on the
basis of year studies).
As  per  reports  of  UNEP-2000,  we  have  been  able  to  describe  about  1750000  species  of
wildlife in the world so far, whereas the possibility of the total number of species existing in the
world is expected to be 14000 000.
Since, the biological and the physical components together constitute the natural environment;
both the components must be conserved and managed properly. In this chapter, we are going to study
about  the  importance  of  wildlife,  principal  factors  causing  loss  of  species  and  about  various
strategies  that  are  being  adopted  on  the  national  and  the  global  levels  for  the  conservation  and
management of wildlife.
4.2. WILD LIFE IN DISTRESS
The wildlife is in distress in the whole world. Besides facing threats from natural calamities,
animals are facing additional threats from human activities too. The increasing demand for different
types of resources and pollutions of air, water and soil are some of the factors that have put wildlife
in distress across the globe.
4.2.1. The Global Scene
According to the IUCN- Red list-2000, about 1130 species of mammals and 1183 species of
birds have been declared to be threatened on the global level. As per assessment made in 1996, there
were about 169 species of mammals and 168 species of birds considered to be critically threatened
in the world. These numbers increased considerably by the year 2000 and the number of critically
threatened species of birds increased unto 182. The wildlife experts in the world are of the opinion
that with the current trend of loss of species or the extinction, about 15 to 20 percent loss of species
of wildlife is feared to occur over the next 100 years.
Extinction may be defined as a condition when no live individual of a particular species
exists anywhere in the world, either in its natural habitat (in situ) or in captivity (ex- situ).Some
species of wildlife are known to play more significant roles in a particular ecosystems than other
species. Such species are called as key- stone species. The loss of such species becomes seriouslydestructive to ecosystems.
IUCN or the International Union for Conservation of Nature and natural resources has
categorized  plants  and  animals  according  to  their  Ecological  Status  in  the  wild.  Some  of  these
categories are mentioned below-
F Extinct: A species that no longer exists anywhere around the world.
F Critically Endangered: A species that is going to face an extremely high risk of extinction in
the wild in the immediate future.
F Endangered: A species that is going to face a high risk of extinction in the wild in the near
future.
F Vulnerable: A species that is going to face high risk of extinction in the wild in the medium-
term future.
F Conservation dependent: A species that is currently the focus of a conservation program. If
the program is halted, the species would suffer and would qualify for one of the threatened
categories above within a period of five years.
F Near Threatened: A species that does not qualify for Conservation Dependent status, but is
close to qualifying for vulnerable status.
4.2.2. The Indian Scene
The Zoological Survey of India and the Botanical Survey of India have surveyed more than
70% of the total geographical area of India for the assessment of total number of species of plants and
animals. So far, about 81,000 species of animals and 49,000 species of plants, have been recorded by
these two institutions, respectively.
According to the IUCN- red list, released on 28th September 2000, the environmental status of
species of plants and animals in India is detailed below.
Table 4.1. Status of species of plants and animals in India
4.3. CAUSES OF LOSS OF SPECIES OF WILDLIFE
The number of species of wildlife is declining through out the world at an unprecedented rate.
Some of the important causes of this loss of species are mentioned below.4.3.1. Habitat Destruction or Conversion of Land
Vast areas of forest lands are being converted into agricultural land, mining land, pasture land
etc. Industrial, residential and municipal construction works grab vast areas of productive land at a
fast rate due to explosion of human population. The varying pattern of land use like agricultural
development, logging, construction of dams, and urban development lead to serious modifications of
habitats. Water bodies like lakes and ponds, wetlands and even coastal lands are being reclaimed for
different purposes. All these practices of habitat destruction are causing decline in the number of
species of wildlife.
Virtually every type of habitat has come under stress over the past three decades. According to
an estimate made by FAO, the forest covers in developing countries declined by 2 million sq. km in
the world annually from 1980 to 1995. About 20 percent of the fresh water species have gone extinct
or threatened.
4.3.2. Climate Change
The climate change has emerged as one of the major potential threats to the existence of wildlife
especially to the small animals. The bleaching of coral reefs has been reported to occur due to rise in
the global temperature. In Indian Ocean, bleaching of coral reefs caused mass mortality of corals (up
to 90%) in an area of more than thousands of sq. kilometres. The decline of amphibian population in
the Tropical Montane forests and mysterious extinction of the golden toads of Florida, have been
reported to be caused due to the changes in the climate. Studies done on the depletion of the ozone
layer  reveal  that  excess  ultra  violet  radiations  reaching  to  the  earth  are  killing  embryos  of
Salamanders due to which these are being vanished from the earth.
Fig. 4.1. Facing Extinction: The Golden Toad of Florida.
4.3.3. Deposition of Nitrogen
The increasing use of fertilizers is causing the deposition of nitrogen in soil which is leading to
the loss of soil organisms. Water bodies are subjected to nitrogen deposition due to joining of surface
run offs from crop fields. This condition leads to eutrophication, increase in the toxic algal bloom and
deaths of aquatic organisms.
The oil spills are causing loss of species of marine animals. A total of 108000 tonnes of oil
were spilled into marine and inland environments as a result of 215 incidents in the world during the
year 1998.4.3.4. Hunting, Poaching and International Trade
Hunting  and  poaching  are  dangerous  practices  causing  mass  scale  loss  of  species  of  wild
animals. Animals are being hunted for meat, sports and illegal trade in their body parts since time
immemorial. One of the most significant forms of hunting is whaling as a result of which stocks of
whales have gone to the brink of extinction in many parts of the world. The international trade in
animal body parts and products derived from them has reached up to the international value of US$
10 000 million per year.
4.3.5. Invasive Species
Plants,  animals,  fungi,  or  microorganisms  that  spread  rapidly  and  cause  harm  to  other
species are called as Invasive Species. Invasive species are sometimes so harmful and damaging
that they threaten an entire ecosystem. An “invasive species” is defined as a species that is -
(i) Non-native (or alien) to an ecosystem, and
(ii) Whose introduction causes or is likely to cause economic or environmental harm or harm to
human health.
In fact invasive species may be the species of some foreign organisms that cause harm to
organisms of a new ecosystem when introduced in it. Here are two examples of invasive species
and the impacts of their introduction into new habitats –
1. Euglandina rosea is a species of snails (called as Wolf Snails) found on large scale in
Australia. When some snails of this species somehow reached to Polynesia, they started feeding on
the native snails of the island. Thus the snails of the new species caused serious loss of endemic land
snail species of the Polynesian islands. Polynesia is a sub region of Oceania, comprising a large
grouping of over 1,000 islands scattered over the central and southern Pacific Ocean.
2. The Tasmanian Brush-tail Possum (Trichosurus vulpecula) is a carnivorous animal that is
found everywhere in Australia. When some individuals of this species were introduced in New
Zealand, they started eating away most of the native birds, and the population of native birds declined
severely in that area.
4.3.6. Pollutions
The pollutions of air, water and land are killing vast varieties of birds, insects and aquatic
organisms. The use of different types of deadly pesticides in agriculture is causing mass scale deaths
of field sparrows, pea cocks and other birds. The population of the white-backed vultures is
declining due to the presence of diclofenac in the dead bodies of cattle once treated with this anti-
inflammatory drug. Fortunately, our scientists have become successful in synthesizing a new alternate
drug named Meloxicam. Now the application of diclofenacs has been banned in India.
4.4. NEED OF CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF WILDLIFE
We know that our environment cannot remain complete or balanced without the existence of
wildlife. We need to conserve and manage our wildlife due to following reasons-Fig. 4.2. A vulcher dead due to consumption of Diclofenac - containing flesh of a dead animal.
1. Living organisms regulate gaseous composition of atmosphere, hydrological cycles, and
climate and soil fertility.
2. Marine organisms are important for the protection of coastal zones.
3. Micro- organisms and certain other animals are important for the disposal and breakdown
of wastes.
4. A large number of insects, birds and other animals are associated with the pollination of
crops and other flowers.
5. Plants play important roles in the absorption of pollutants.
6. Wild organisms serve as important sources of medicines for human health. As per reports
of UNEP-2000, out of 25 top selling drugs in 1997, 10 were derived from wild sources
alone.  The  global  market  value  of  medicines  derived  from  wild  sources  has  been
estimated to be US$ 75000 to 150 000 million annually. About 75 percent of the world
population rely for health care on traditional medicines that are directly derived from
plants and animals growing in the wild.
7. Wild life are regarded as social, cultural, and national assets in India. Hence, we have
National  Bird  and  National  Animal  as  well  as  State  Bird  and  State  Animal  on
government levels.
8. Wildlife constitutes the biological basis for world food security and support for human
livelihood. So many types of wild plants are of great importance to global and national
economies. They are our important genetic resources also.
4.5. MEASURES OF CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF WILDLIFE
India has a rich heritage of wildlife. It has a long history and tradition of conservation of plants
and animals. Principles of conservation are mixed in religious texts and practices in this country.
Kautilya’s Arthshastra contains the concept of making Forest Reserves (Abhayaranyas) for the
protection of state elephants during 3rd. century B.C. Conservation of wildlife has been put into two
major categories-(A) in situ conservation or “on-site conservation” in which wildlife is conserved
inside National Parks, wildlife Sanctuaries and biosphere reserves ; (B) ex-situ conservation or
“conservation outside the natural habitat of wilflife” Keeping Gene-Banks, microbial culture andcaptive  breeding  are  some  examples  of  ex-situ  conservation.  Following  are  some  of  the  most
important measures that are being taken up for the conservation and management of wildlife in India
and abroad –
4.5.1. NATIONAL PARKS
A  National  Park  is  an  area  protected  and  preserved  by  law  for  the  protection  and
preservation of flora and fauna within its boundary. Grazing of cattle, removal of any wildlife
from  its  habitat  is  strictly  prohibited  in  a  national  park  and  all  rights  are  reserved  with  the
government. The law defines a national park as an area which is of ecological, faunal, floral and
geomorphologic importance. The Corbett National Park, established in 1935, is considered to be
India’s first national park. The yellow Stone National Park -USA, is considered as first national
park in the world. It was established in 1872 and it has an area of 8983sq km.
According to a report, William Henry Jackson, a photographer and Thomas Moran, an artist,
visited Yellow Stone region in 1871 and brought several photographs from there. Those photographs
moved the public of America and US government and persuaded them to preserve the area. President
Ulysses S. Grant signed a bill creating Yellow Stone a, National Park in 1872.
There are 80 national parks in India. Some of those important national parks are being briefly
introduced here.
1. Corbett National Park: Spread along the bank of the river Ramganga in Uttaranchal (earlier
U.P.), it is India’s First National Park, which was constituted in 1936. This park is spread in an area
of 52,082 hectares. Important wildlife kept in this park are – tiger, elephant, deer, wild boars, otters
and a number of species of birds.
Fig. 4.3. Scene of a National Park. (Gate of Kanha National Park)
2. Hazaribagh National Park: Located in Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand state, this national
park has a wide variety of animals like wild boar, sambhar, nilgai, tiger, leopard, sloth beer, hyena,
and gaur. It has an area of 184 km of thick tropical forest. This national park was notified in the year
1976 and its total area is 18, 625 hectares.3. Kanha National Park:  This  Park  is  basically  a  Tiger  Reserve.  It  is  located  in  Madhya
Pradesh. Some important animals kept in this park are –leopards, langurs, mongoose, Cats, hyena,
porcupine, etc. Sal and bamboos are principal trees in this park besides wide variety of other plants.
This national park was notified in the year 1955 and its area is 94, 000 hectares.
4.  Bandhav  Garh  National  Park:  This  Park  is  located  in  Madhya  Pradesh.  The  principal
animal kept in this park is the White Tiger. Notified in the year 1968, this nation park is spread in the
area of 44,884 hectares.
5. Kajiranga National Park: It is located on the bank of the river Brahmputra in Assam. It is
famous for one Horned Rhinoceros. Besides rhinos, other animals protected in the park are swamp
deer, bison, tiger, leopard, hoolock gibbon, wild buffaloes, pythons, monitor lizards, elephants etc.
Principal plants found in the park are tall elephant grass, Sal trees and different types of bushes. This
national park was notified in the year 1974, and its area is 42, 996 hectares.
6. Dudwa National Park: Located in Lakhimpur Khiri district of Uttar Pradesh, this National
Park supports wide variety of wild animals including re- introduced one- horned rhinos and swamp
deer etc. Other animals in this park are – crocodiles, leopards, jackals, sambhars and sloth beers.
Principal plants comprise grass species, Sal trees etc. This national park was notified in the year
1977 and its area is 49, 029 hectares.
7. Pench National Park: Located on the southern edge of Madhya Pradesh, this park is named
after the river Pench which flows through this park from north to south. It is the 19th Project Tiger
Reserve in the country. This national park was notified in the year 1977 and it is spread in the area of
29, 286 hectares.
8. The Sundarban National Park: Located in Sundarbans in West Bengal, this national park has
an area of 11, 710 hectares. This is the principal habitat of Royal Bengal Tigers. This park has largest
mangrove vegetation in the world. Other animals supported by this park are deer, chital, rhesus
monkeys etc.
9. Dachigam National Park: This National Park was notified in the year 1981 in the Jammu and
Kashmir (India). This park has an area of 14, 100 hectares. Some of the animals protected in this park
are Kashmiri Stag and Hangul.
10. Gir Forests: This National Park is located in Kathiawar district of Gujarat state of India.
This national park was notified in the year 1965. It is spread in an area of 115, 342 hectares. It is
famous for Gir Lions.
11. Ranthambor National Park: This National Park is located in Rajasthan state of India.
Constituted in the year 1980, this park is spread in an area of 39, 200 hectares. The principal wildlife
protected in this park is crocodile, nilgai, gazelle, sambhar etc.
12. Palamau National Park: Located in Dalton Ganj District of Palamau area of Jharkhand
(previously in Bihar) state of India. This National Park was notified in the year 1986. It has an area of
21, 300 hectares. The flora of this national park comprises thick tropical forests due to which it has
been selected for the Project Tiger, an ambitious project for the protection and propagation of tigersin India. The fauna of this national park comprises tiger, elephant, deer, panther, sloth beer, chital,
gaur, nilgai, chinkara, and mouse deer etc.
13. Simlipal National Park: Located in the district Mayurbhanj of Orissa state of India, this
National Park comprises dense Sal forest due to which this park has been chosen for the Project
Tiger. The fauna of this national park comprises tiger, elephant, deer, pea foul, talking mainas, chital,
sambhar, panther, gaur, hyena, and sloth beer. Notified in the year 1978, this national park is spread in
the area of 135,500 hectares.
14. Tadoba National Park: Located in Chandra Pur district of Maharashtra state of India, this
National Park was notified in the year 1955. It is spread in an area of 11, 655 hectares and it supports
the  populations  of  tiger,  sambhar,  sloth  beer,  lion,  chital,  chinkara,  barking  deer,  blue  bull,  four
horned deer, langur, pea foul and crocodile.
4.5.2. Wildlife Sanctuaries And Biosphere Reserves
A. WILDLIFE SANCTUARY
A Sanctuary is a protected area where wild animals and birds are kept and encouraged to
increase their population. Presently, there are more than 490 sanctuaries in India covering a total area
of 1, 48,848 sq km.
In wildlife sanctuaries, rare and endangered species are encouraged to breed in human
controlled environments with restricted settings. This is called as captive breeding. This is a
successful technique to increase the populations of rare and endangered species of animals. When the
populations of such animals are increased through captive breeding in the captivity the animals are
safely released into the wild.
The technique of captive breeding has following advantages –
1. It helps to increase the populations of rare and endangered species of animals and to save
these animals from extinction.
2. The birth rates, hatching rates and survival rates of captivity –produced animals remains much
higher than in case of higher bleedings.
3. This technique helps us to raise the population of wild animals up to the desired levels.
4. This technique is useful in developing desired characters or traits in organisms.
Some important wildlife sanctuaries are being introduced here in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2. Some important wildlife sanctuaries in IndiaThere are following differences between a National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary1. The boundaries of a National Park are usually well marked and circumscribed where as
those of sanctuaries are often not well defined.
2. A National Park is established under the provisions of Section 35, section 38(2), and
Section 66(3) of the Wild Life (Protection) Act of 1972. On the other hand a Wildlife
Sanctuary is an area that is established under the provisions of Section 26-A, Section
38(1), and Section 66(3) of this Act.
3. An area can not be notified as a National Park, if it is a reserve Forest. However this is not
the case with a Wildlife Sanctuary in which an area can directly be notified as a Wildlife
Sanctuary even if it is a reserve forest.
4. As defined by IUCN (1975), a National Park is a large area of land containing ecosystems
that have not been materially altered by human activities, and including plant and animal
species, landscape  features,  and  habitat  of  great  scientific  interest,  or  of  beauty,  or
recreational or educational interest; and the public is allowed to visit it for inspirational,
cultural, and recreational purposes. On the other hand an Area set aside by the state to
protect  characteristic  wildlife,  especially  migratory  bird  communities,  or  to  protect
threatened animal or plant species etc. is called as a Wildlife Sanctuary. All forms of
hunting,  killing  or  capturing  of  wildlife  are  prohibited  except  for  scientific  research
authorized by the minister.
5. A national Park is established by the government in view of protection of all the flora and
fauna of certain area. But a Wildlife sanctuary is meant for the protection, breeding and
propagation of individuals of an endangered species.
In spite of some differences, National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries have basic similarities. It
can be said that both the National Park and the Wildlife Sanctuary are protected areas, and no biotic
interference is allowed in both of these areas. Both of these protected areas are established in India
under the provisions of the Wild Life (Protection) Act of 1972. Both of these are small forest reserves
ranging on an average to the area of 100 sq Km to 500 sq Km.
B. BIOSPHERE RESERVES
A specified area in which multiple use of land is allowed by dividing it into different zones
and  each  zone,  of  which  remains  specified  for  a  particular  activity,  is  called  as  Biosphere
Reserve.
A  number  of  biosphere  reserves  have  been  established  by  United  Nations  Educational
Scientific  and  Cultural  organisation  (UNESCO)  under  its  Man  And  Biosphere  Programme
(MAB)-1986 in different countries. The biosphere reserves have international networks.
Each of the biosphere reserve has been divided into three zones-
(a) Core Zone, where human interference is banned completely.
(b) Buffer Zones, where human interference is allowed up to limited extent.
(c) Manipulated Zone or Transition Zones, where humans are free to perform their activities.
The  biosphere  reserves  are  planned,  managed  and  protected  through  joint  efforts  of  the
government, non- governmental organizations and the local people.
India has declared 14 areas as biosphere reserves. These areas are aimed at –
(i) Conservation of biodiversity (species, ecosystem, and landscapes).
(ii) Development of economic and human infrastructures.(iii) Promotion of education, information – exchange and research pertaining to conservation
and development.
The Biosphere Reserves have following functions-
1. The biosphere reserves are helpful in the conservation of ecosystems, species and other
resources.
2. The biosphere reserves are helpful in the promotion of economic development.
3. Biosphere reserves are helpful in promoting scientific research and education.
Wet lands are habitats for a large number of species of plants and animals. What are wet lands?
Well, these are areas where the water table is just beneath or at the land surface. In wet lands, the
land is covered by shallow water. These lands play important roles in the regulation of water. In
India, about 18 percent of land is covered by wet lands but most of them are under cultivation of
paddy crop. The Indian Government has enacted laws for the preservation of wet lands and protection
of wildlife.
Being inspired by the importance of wet lands, the world community came down to develop
Convention on Wetlands of international importance. The Ramsar Convention on the conservation
and Management of Wetlands was held in on February 2, 1971 in the Iranian city Ramsar, which
provided a framework for national actions and international co- operation on this issue. February 2,
is celebrated as the “World Wetland Day” across the globe.
4.5.3. Breeding Programmes for Endangered Species
In India, efforts are underway to address the problem of species loss and extinction. Seriously
threatened wild animals are being bred in captivity. When their population increases, animals are
released to go in the wild and to live freely. It is through captive breeding that the population of
Hawaiian goose or nene has increased over 2500.
India has a goal of covering one third of its land area with existing or planted vegetation. It has
achieved tremendous success in species conservation through its breeding programmes. The Project
Tiger and Crocodile Breeding and Management Project are two world renowned programmes of
increasing the populations of tigers and crocodiles respectively. Some of the principal aims of these
projects  are  conservation  and  management  of  these  animals,  raising  their  population  and
maintaining biodiversity and ecological balance.
Under Project Tiger, 9 special Tiger Reserves covering an area of 37761 sq km have been
established for breeding and increasing the population of tigers. Corbett National Park, Bandhav Garh
National Park, Kanha National Park, Sundarbans National Park are some major reserves under this
project. Due to this, the population of tigers in the country doubled by 1989. The Project Tiger was
launched during the period of 1973-74. WWF offers technical and financial assistance to the project.
Another  ambitious  project  which  aims  at  long  term  survival  of  the  existing  population  of
elephants is the Project Elephant. This project was started in the year 1992 in 12 states of India.
4.5.4. Prevention of Poaching, Hunting and Bio- Piracy
Poaching, Hunting and Bio- piracy are terms that relate to gradual extinction and destruction of
our biotic resources due to human activities, usually oriented towards commercial benefits. However,
these terms are very much different in their meanings from each other. So, let us discuss these terms
separately.A. POACHING
According to law, shooting, trapping or taking of game or fish from private property or
from an area where such practices are especially reserved is called as Poaching. In other words,
poaching is an illegal practice of hunting and killing of game or fish, for food and commercial
benefits. But, what is the game? Well, wild animals, birds or fish, that are hunted for sporting and
getting their flesh, is called as GAME. Game is the term, often applied to edible portion of wild
animals (poultry, wild birds and mammals) also.
B. HUNTING
The practice of chasing and killing wild animals and birds as a sport or for food is called
as hunting.
In 17th and 18th centuries laws were passed to restrict the right of hunting to landlords, kings and
their sons. Due to this, illegal hunting in the legally forbidden areas was started by gangs of organised
hunters or poachers who used to hunt by breaking the law. Poaching is a profession similar to that of
a thief but unlike the profession of a thief, the profession of a poacher involves chasing, deceiving and
capturing a wild animal, killing it or cutting out its body parts for trade, without letting any one ( govt.
or  any  law  enforcement  agency  )  know  about  his  activities.  Now  that  hunting  has  been  banned
altogether, the illegal hunting i.e. poaching is going on almost in every part of the world for illegally
gaining big commercial benefits.
enviro _Facts : 04
CITES or Convention on International Trade in Endangered species have framed International Laws to be applicable world
wide. These laws protect endangered species and limit the illicit trade in wildlife, in their body parts and in the products derived by
killing them across the world. This convention was drawn by the United Nations in 1973 and it came into force in 1975 when 18
nations of the world including the United Nations, signed an agreement to co- operate in the enforcement of laws framed by CITES
for the international safeguard of wildlife. By January 1, 1998, 143 nations of the world had become members of this
international  organisation.  The  CITES  is  concerned  with  the  international  co-  operation  to  control  only  the  illegal  trade  in
endangered species where as the TRAFFIC is concerned with the monitoring of both the legal as well as the illegal trade in
wildlife across the world.
On international level, the IUCN and the WWF established Trade Records Analysis of Flora and
Fauna  in  International  Commerce  (TRAFFIC)  in  1976.  The  secretariat  of  the  TRAFFIC  has
strengthened the efforts of the International Community to monitor and control illegal trade in wildlife
and in their body parts. On the National Level we have different laws that are in force to check
poaching and hunting of animals and also to check trade in their body parts. The Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) of wild flora and fauna, the Interpol, World
Custom Organisations and a large number of organisations on global level, are establishing networks
to check the international trade in animals and in their body parts or in their products derived by
killing them mercilessly.
C. BIOPIRACY
The illegal collection and patenting of the biological materials originally belonging to some
other community, state or nation; is called as the bio-piracy. The Patenting is the act of gaining an
official right of ownership. By patenting any thing or any biological material, a person, a corporation,
a research institution or a country gains the officially legal authority of being the only owner of thatthing or the biological material.
The term Bio-piracy relates to-
(a) illegal unauthorised use of biological material like plants, animals or their products,
(b) illegal and unauthorised use of traditional knowledge of some other society or community
about the application of certain biological product(s),
(c) unlawful  sharing  in  the  benefits  by  the  patent  holder  and  deprivation  of  indigenous
communities or people who are the real owner of the biological material / knowledge used
for making benefits.
4.5.5. ENFORCEMENT OF LEGAL PROVISIONS
The Article 48-A of the Indian Constitution directs;
“The State shall endeavour to protect and improve the environment and to safeguard the forests
and wildlife of the country.”
Further, Article 51–A (g) of the Indian Constitution has imposed the duty on Indian citizens-
“to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife, and
to have compassion for living creatures.”
Thus, the Indian Constitution has laid a joint responsibility on both the state and every citizen of
India to protect the natural environment and to check its deterioration.
Earlier legislations of most of the countries were environmentally blind, probably because, the
ill effects of the environmental problems had never been felt so deeply. The first cases to attract the
attention of people of India towards animals were “Cruelty to Animals”, and the “need of protecting
wild elephants”. In order to prevent the infliction of unnecessary pain or suffering on animals and for
that purpose to amend the law relating to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals an act was passed on
December 26, 1960 by the Indian Parliament.
(1) This Act is called as the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act- 1960.
(2) It extends to the whole of India, except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
It has been stated in the act that- It shall be the duty of every person having the care or
charge of any animal to take all reasonable measures to ensure the well-being of such animal and
to prevent the infliction upon such animal of unnecessary pain or suffering
This act bans all types of atrocities often done by human beings on animals. How ever, it was
thought that the act was ineffective in certain cases. Hence it was amended in 1982. According to the
amendment; it shall be the duty of every person having the care or charge of any animal to take all
reasonable measures to ensure the well being of such animal and to prevent the infliction upon such
animal of unnecessary pain or suffering. In pursuance to this act, some norms for transporting animals
from place to place without hurting them have also been laid down. In this spirit, an amendment was
made in this act in 2004, in it’s Section 38 to ensure safe and comfortable transport of animals. . So
far,  the  government  of  India  has  formulated  about  200  laws  including  their  amendments,  for  the
protection  of  wildlife.  The  other  act  is  the  Wildlife  Protection  Act-  1972.  Following  are  the
objectives of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 – (also see enviro_Facts: 16.2.)
1. The protection and preservation of different species of plants,
2. Ban on the hunting of wildlife and the organisation of Wildlife Authority,
3. Declaration and organisation of wildlife parks, protected areas, bio- reserves, wildlife
sanctuaries, zoos and Central Zoo Authority of India,
4. Penalties for violations of directives and legal provisions,5. Breeding and management of wildlife in captivities.
4
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
The monitoring and management of endangered species has been made easier by the application of microchips. Today a tiny
microchip bearing address of a particular animal is hiddenly implanted in the body of an animal. In case of piracy, the animal can be
recovered and re- established in its original habitat as it can be traced by establishing a connection with the microchip. Microchips are
being used by veterinarians also, for the identification of individual endangered animal. Earlier, the microchip technology was used in
the management of captive breeding programmes only. But now, experts are using this technology to mark wild animals to mark
inconspicuously.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
WILDLIFE : All the undomesticated organisms (plants, animals and micro- organisms )
are called as wildlife.
CONSERVATION  AND : Protection,  preservation,  and  propagation  of  resources  through  planned
MANAGEMENT efforts is called as conservation management of resources.
IUCN- RED LIST : A data- list published by conservation- union (IUCN) from time to time. It
incorporates names of species of wildlife that are threatened with extinction.
MAMMAL : An animal having mammary glands, like cow, goat, elephant, bat, rat, dog
and human being.
EXTINCTION : The condition when no live individual of a particular species exists anywhere
in the world either in-situ or in ex- situ.
BLEACHING  OF  CORAL : Discolouration and deaths of corals in coral reefs due to rise in the global
REEFS oceanic temperatures, is called as bleaching of coral reefs.
HUNTING : The practice of chasing and killing wild animals and birds as a sport or for
food are called as hunting.
POACHING : Shooting, trapping, or taking of game or fish from private property or from a
place where such practices are especially reserved is called as poaching.
INVASIVE SPECIES : Foreign organisms that colonise native ecosystems are called as invasive
species.
NATIONAL PARK : An area protected and preserved by law for the protection and propagation
of flora and fauna within its boundary is called as a national park.
SANCTUARY : A protected area where wild animals and birds are kept and encouraged to
increase their population is called as a sanctuary.
PROJECT TIGER : It was a project launched in India in 1973 for the protection and breeding of
tigers  so  as  to  increase  their  population.  Different  tiger  reserves  were
established in different parts of the country under this project. It was by
1997 that the number of tiger reserves, rose up to 27 and the number of
tigers rose up to 1500, in India.
PROJECT ELEPHANT : It was a project launched in India so as to protect the population of wild
elephants .This project was launched in 1992 simultaneously in 12 states.
Inspite of this project, the population of wild elephants is coming down due
to massive deforestation and disruption of their migration routes by human
activities.
PROJECT CROCODILE : It is a project formulated to protect crocodiles from the impending danger of
their extinction in 1975. Under the project crocodile breeding centres were
established on different places of the country in order to increase their
population. Today, more than 30 centres are in operation across the country.
WETLAND : Areas where water table is just beneath or at the land surface.MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Why are species of toads and frogs vanishing fast from the world?
2. In which district of Jharkhand state is the Hajari Bag National Park situated?
3. Which sanctuary has been considered as the second home for Gir lions?
4. Which national park is considered as the first national park in the world?
5. When did the Ramsar Convention take place? For what purpose was this convention organised?
6. Write full forms of – WWF, CITES, IUCN, TRAFFIC.
7. What is the basic reason behind the bleaching of coral reefs?
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(2 marks each)
1. Define –
(i) National Park
(ii) Sanctuary
(iii) Poaching
(iv) Hunting
2. What do you mean by the term wildlife?
3. (i) Define biodiversity.
(ICSE 2010)
(ii) State two aims of Project Tiger.
(ICSE 2010)
4. What are important causes that have put the wildlife in distress?
5. What is a National Park? Distinguish between a national park and a wildlife sanctuary.
(ICSE 2007)
6. What is a rare species?
(ICSE 2005)
7. How is the change in the climate associated with the extinction of species of some wild animals?
8. Name any two Acts in India that are aimed at conservation of wildlife.
(ICSE 2007)
9. Define Endangered species.
(ICSE 2006)
10. Mention two objectives of wildlife protections Act 1972.
(ICSE 2006, 2008)
11. State one advantage and one disadvantage of captive breeding.
(ICSE 2008)
12. What do you mean by the Invasive Species? How can invasive species cause extinction of other species?
13. Why is it essential to protect wildlife? OR What is the need of conservation and management of wildlife?
14. What is Bio-piracy? What are its different forms?
(ICSE 2008)
15. What is a Biosphere Reserve? How is it helpful in the conservation of wildlife?
16. State any two objectives of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.
(ICSE 2010)
17. Expand : CITES, TRAFFIC
(ICSE 2010)
18. What do you mean by the term wildlife?
(ICSE 2010)
19. Discuss any four causes for the loss of biodiversity.
(ICSE 2010)
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 marks each)
1. What do you mean by the conservation and management of wildlife? Why is it essential?
2. What are principal measures adopted for the conservation and management of wildlife? Describe any two of them.3. Mention different factors that threaten wildlife in nature and describe any two of them.
4. What is Captive Breeding ? Mention any four advantages of captive Breeding.
(ICSE 2007)
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. The term wildlife relates to –
(a) plants
(b) animals
(c) plants and animals in the wild
(d) only animals
2. The number of species of mammals declared threatened on the global level as per the red list of IUCN is –
(a) 1130
(b) 182
(c) 180
(d) 168
3. The bleaching of coral reefs is caused by –
(a) Climate change
(b) Ozone layer depletion
(c) Acid Rain
(d) Water Pollution
4. The predatory snail species Euglandina rosea is–
(a) invasive species
(b) extinct species
(c) domestic species
(d) endangered species
5. Which one is considered as India’s first national park –?
(a) Hajari Bagh National Park
(b) Pench National Park
(c) Gir Forest
(d) Corbett National Park
6. The word ‘Ramsar ‘is associated with –
(a) Ram
(b) wet land
(c) national park
(d) an ocean
B. Fill in the blanks
1. India has a rich ……………of wildlife.
2. Increasing use of nitrogenous fertilizers is causing deposition of ………in the soil.
3. Foreign species that colonise native ecosystems are called as ……………species.
4. The Palamau National Park is located in the state of ………… .
5. Unauthorised collection and patenting of biological materials is called as ………… .
C. True/False
Write T against the statement which is true, and F against the statement which is false.
1. India has a national goal of covering one –fifth of its land area with existing or planted vegetation.
2. All the forests of a country are called as its wildlife.
3. Vast areas of land are being converted into agricultural lands.
4. Embryos of salamanders are dying out due to ultraviolet radiations reaching to the earth.
5. The concept of developing Abhayaranyas (forest reserves) was first developed in India by Kautilya.
6. The Pench National Park is situated in the United States of America.
7. A number of Biosphere Reserves in India have been established by United States of America.
ANSWERSI. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Species of toad, frogs, and salamanders are vanishing due to climate change. 2. Jharkhand, 3. Chandra Prabha Sanctuary,
Varanasi, 4. Yellow Stone National Park, USA, 5. 1971; Conservation of Wetlands, 6. WWF= World Wildlife Fund, CITES =
Convention  on  International  Trade  in  Endangered  Species  of  wild  fauna  and  flora,  IUCN  =International  Union  for
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. 7. Global Warming.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1. (c), 2. (a), 3. (a), 4. (a), 5. (d), 6. (b)
B. Fill in the blanks
1. heritage, 2. nitrogen, 3. invasive, 4. Jharkhand, 5. bio-piracy
C.True / False
1. F, 2. F, 3. T, 4. T, 5. T, 6. F, 7. F.
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
4.1. FIELD TRIP (Group Activity)
(a) Visit a forest area. Record instances of tree-cutting and natural death of trees.
(b) Select a tree for your study. Stand below it. First try to identify it. Then see its different parts_stem, branches, leaves,
flowers and fruits. Record your observation in the following format—
1. Animal activity on and around the trees:
(i) Number of insects moving around the tree.
(ii) Number of insects moving on the trunk.
(iii) Number of organisms found under the bark.
(iv) Number of nests on the tree, and names of the birds living in tree.
2. Measure the trunk with a measuring tape, and record it.
3. Collect fruit/seed. Don’t climb. Just record while standing on the ground. Observe a fruit and note its special features
that help in its dispersal.
Make a report of your findings. Show it to your teacher.
4.2. PROJECT FORMULATION AND PROJECT WRITING
Prepare a project on the protection and welfare of birds in your area and write a Project Report.
4.3. DEBATE
Organize a debate in your class on the topic – Animal Sacrifice: Should it be banned?


CHAPTER5
Bio-Technology and Its Applications
FACTS & CONCEPTS
♦ Introduction : What is Bio-Technology?
♦ The Origin and Development of Bio-Technology
♦ Scope of Bio-Technology
♦ Bio-Technological Applications
♦ Specific Applications
♦ General Applications
♦ Application of Biotechnology in Environmental Conservation
5.1. INTRODUCTION
What is biotechnology?
The scientific knowledge which is applied to practical ways in industry for the benefit of human
beings is called as technology. The biological sciences have recently passed through more advanced
technologies in different spheres of life and activities. One of those advanced technologies is the Bio-
technology.The applications of advances made in the techniques and instrumentations in research in
biological sciences are called as Bio-technology. Some people define bio- technology as – the
manipulation of organisms to make products that benefit human beings. In this chapter, we are
going to study about bio- technology and it’s different applications in order to make a better world.
enviro_Facts : 05
DNA- THE BASIS OF BIOLOGICAL ACTIVITIES
Fig. 5.1. Rosalind Elsie Franklin(1920-1958) : The Pioneer of the discovery of DNA.
The characteristics of a living organism are determined by some physical units called as genes that are arranged on
chromosomes found inside the nucleus of a cell. A gene is made of molecules of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), which is called as
the Genetic Blue Print of each living cell. The characteristics and structure of DNA was studied by Rosalind Franklin, Francis
Crick, James Watson and Maurice Wilkins (1953), for which Crick, Watson and Wilkins were awarded Nobel Prize for the year
1962. The contribution of Rosalind Franklin remained un-noticed and she died four years earlier to the award of the Nobel Prize to
her fellow workers. Later, Dr. H.G. Khorana, R.H. Holley and M.W. Nirenberg were awarded Nobel Prize for the year 1968, for
their pioneering works related to the synthesis of gene. These studies of gene and DNA formed the basis of development of bio-
technological studies in India and abroad. The presentation of double helical model of DNA and discoveries pertaining to gene,
mark the beginning of the modern era of Bio- technology.Fig. 5.2. Helical Structure of DNA Molecule.
5.2. THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF BIO- TECHNOLOGY
The pioneering achievement in the field of Bio- technology was the production of greater genetic
varieties of plants and animals through the techniques of Hybridization in 5000BC. It was through
hybridization that present day High Yielding Varieties of plants and animals were evolved. This
technique is being continuously used in improved forms in our programmes concerned with food
production. Norman E. Borlaug, the American Agriculturist, received the Nobel Prize for the year
1970 for his important contribution of increasing the world food supply through different techniques
like  hybridization,  Selective  Breeding  and  Gene  Transfer.  Hybridization  is  the  technology  or
process of crossing individuals of opposite sex of different species so as to produce off springs of
combined character. The Indian Scientist Dr. M.S. Swaminathan (1967) initiated and developed
technologies for increasing food production in India. Dr. Swaminathan is now being called as the
Father of Economic Ecology.Norman E. Borlaug
Dr. M.S. Swaminathan
Fig. 5.3. Norman E. Borlaug (left) and Dr. M.S. Swaminathan (right).
In 1960, Werner Arber discovered specific enzymes called as Restriction Enzyme in bacteria.
These enzymes can cut the DNA strand of an organism at a precise point. Further, in 1973, Stanley
Cohen and Herbert Boyer became successful in removing a specific gene from a bacterium and
inserting it into another bacterium by the application of the restriction enzyme. This discovery led to
the  development  of  the  Recombinant  DNA  Technology  which  is  commonly  called  as  Genetic
Engineering.
Another major achievement in the field of biotechnological development was the manipulation
of bacteria to produce Human Protein (1977). Afterwards, the American Molecular Biologist Lydia
Villa- Komaroff developed basic bio- technologyfor the production of Rat Insulin with the help of
genetically  engineered  bacteria.  By  using  genetically  engineered  bacteria,  scientists  became
successful in producing Human Insulin in 1978 and within a period of 5 years the Human Insulin
became the first biopharmaceutical product in the market to control Diabetes Mellitus.
5.3. SCOPE OF BIO-TECHNOLOGY
Bio-technology  has  scope  in  the  fields  of  Agriculture  and  Animal  Husbandry,  Molecular
Medicine, Forensic Science, Microbial Genetics, Environmental Sciences etc.5.3.1. Agriculture and Animal Husbandry
The scope of bio- technological applications in Agriculture and Animal Husbandry is concerned
with- the development of disease and pest resistant varieties of plants and animals; the production of
food  containing  high  nutrient  value;  the  production  of  vaccines  and  the  development  of  drought
resistant crop varieties.
5.3.2. Molecular Medicine
This  field  of  Bio-technology  incorporates-disease  diagnosis  through  cultural  and  different
biotechnological  methods  and  through  Gene  Therapy  (cure  of  diseases  through  improvement  and
modification of genes).
5.3.3. Forensic Science
This science relates to the identification of criminals and researches pertaining to crime. This
field  of  bio-  technology  incorporates-  the  DNA-  matching  tests;  the  establishment  of  genetic
relationships; DNA-mapping; DNA- Fingerprinting and Genetic Analysis etc.
5.3.4. Microbial Genetics
This field of bio- technology incorporates- Study of microorganisms and their genetic make up;
the study of genetic behavior and possibilities of genetic alterations; recombination etc.The microbial
Genetics is also concerned with the study of bio- weapons; bio-wars and bio- fuels.
5.3.5. Environmental Science
This field of bio- technology incorporates-studies pertaining to the detection of microorganisms
causing  health  hazards;  environmental  pollutions  and  the  monitoring  of  environmental  problems
concerned with the living world.
5.4. BIO-TECHNOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS
The application of bio- technology can be put into two board categories: Specific Applications
and General Applications
5.4.1. Specific Applications
(a)  Genetic  Engineering:  The  experiments  of  Stanley  Cohen  and  Herbert  Boyer  (1973)
pertaining to the removal of specific gene from a bacterium and the insertion of the same gene into
another bacterium, marks the beginning of the Recombinant DNA- technology which is also called
as the Genetic Engineering. In their experiments, the “restriction enzymes” were used for cutting the
segments of DNA. The Enzymes are specific proteins which can speed up biochemical processes
without being altered in the chemical reactions.
The  science  of  changing  the  pattern  of  development  and  behavior  of  an  organism  by
making  alterations  in  its  genes  is  called  as  genetic  engineering.  The  organisms  produced  by
altering genetic make up through DNA recombinant technology or through genetic engineering arecalled as Genetically Modified Organisms  or  GMOs.  In  agriculture,  GM-crops  are  also  being
produced through genetic engineering. The food produced from genetically modified crops is called
as GM- food.
The genetically engineered organism in which a foreign gene has been introduced to obtain
desired results is called as a Transgenic Organism. Such an organism may be a plant, an animal,
bacteria or fungi. These organisms are developed by injecting a foreign gene into the embryo or the
fertilized egg of an organism.
Importance of genetic engineering
♦ Through genetic engineering the alterations in the genetic make up of an organism can be
done successfully,
♦ Genetic  engineering  can  be  employed  in  increasing  food  production  from  plants  and
animals by producing new strains of crops and animals.
♦ It is applied in the diagnosis of diseases and improvements in the medical treatment.
Fig. 5.4. Tissue Culture in a laboratory.
(b) Plant Tissue Culture: The technique of growing plant tissues on artificial nutrient medium
under laboratory conditions, so as to produce new plants, is called as plant tissue culture. These may
be the Meristem Culture, Embryo Culture, Anther Culture and so on.
(c)  Monoclonal  Antibody:  The  specialized  types  of  protein  molecules  produced  in  the
laboratory are called as monoclonal antibodies. These are produced naturally in our bodies when
any  bacteria  or  virus  invades  it.  Monoclonal  antibodies  are  produced  in  our  blood  and  these
antibodies protect us from different types of diseases. These bodies are used in identifying different
types  of  cells.  These  are  also  employed  in  many  diagnostic  tests  for  bacteria  and  viruses.  Theexperiments on using monoclonal antibodies for fighting against cancer are also going on across the
world.
The  genetic  engineers  have  engineered  the  bacterial  species  E. colito  synthesize  a  specific
protein called as Interferon. These proteins are produced naturally by body cells to oppose viral
infections. Thebiologically synthesized interferon has been tested and found successful.
(d) Synthesis of Enzymes: The Proteinaceous chemical substances of biological origin that
accelerate biochemical reactions without undergoing any change are called as enzymes. The
term “enzyme” was coined by William Kuhne in 1867 on the basis of his studies on yeast.
Specific enzymes can be synthesized through the application of bio- technology. These enzymes
are used in various processes like removal of stains, softening of fabrics, preparation of digestible
foods, processing of meat and, even the treatment of cancer.
(e)  Synthesis  of  Biodegradable  Plastics:  Bio-  technology  is  currently  employed  in  the
synthesis of plastic which is biodegradable i.e. unlike other plastics; this plastic can be broken down
into simpler substances by microorganisms.
The biodegradable plastic is made from lactic acid which is produced at the time of bacterial
fermentation of plant materials like discarded stalks of corn. In the process, molecules of Lactic Acid
are chemically grouped to form the biodegradable plastic. In fact, the biodegradable plastic is a
material which has most of the properties of plastic except the property of being non- biodegradable.
(f) Blood Substitute: Today the number of people needing blood transfusion is increasing due to
frequent  accidents  and  diseases.  In  view  of  these  facts,  biotechnologists  are  trying  to  synthesize
artificial blood through bio- technology. The biotechnologists like Mary L. Nucci and Abraham
Abuchowski (1998) are likely to get success in their experiments in this regard.
(g) Bio-technology and Mining: Different types of bacteria are being currently employed in the
extraction of different metals like copper, zinc, lead and other metals. These bacteria act on the
metallic compounds available inside the earth and help in the isolation of respective metals.
(h) Bio-technology and Blood Clotting Protein: Bio- technology has many types of dramatic
applications in the field of medicine. It has produced Factor- VIII (1986), which is a blood clotting
protein and which is not produced in haemophilic persons. Under these conditions the haemophilic
people are always at the risk of bleeding to death. In the process of synthesis of Factor VIII, the
human  genes  having  codes  of  production  of  blood  clotting  protein  are  transplanted  into  the
haemophilic person. The factor VIII is being produced commercially since 1992.
The biotechnology which is applied to medical processes is called as Red - Biotechnology.
The production of antibodies and Genomic Manipulation are done under Red - Biotechnology.
(i) Cloning: The bio-technology of production of cells or organisms that are originally derived
from a single original cell or organism by asexual method under laboratory conditions is called as
cloning. The copies of organisms produced during cloning have identical genetic make up and are
known as clones. We can define a clone as an individual cell or organism which has been grown by
a single body cell and which is genetically identical to its parent cell.Fig. 5.5. The First Cloned CAT- the - cc.
During 1950s, scientists cloned frogs and by 1980s they cloned mice. During 1996, Ian Wilmot
and his team of researchers achieved success for the first time in cloning an adult sheep. They named
the clone as Dolly. Scientists at Texas A & M University in College Station produced the first cloned
cat on Dec. 22, 2001 through the Nuclear Transfer Technique. They named the clone – cc or the
carbon copy. It is hoped that scientists may one day become successful in cloning extinct animals
also.
CLONING OF ENDANGERED ANIMALS
Cloning is an important technique as it is helpful in protecting endangered species as well as in
bringing back extinct species of animals. An endangered ox called as Gaur of South East Asia was
successfully  cloned  by  scientists  in  2000.  Scientists  are  trying  to  clone  some  other  endangered
animals like African bongo, Sumatran Tiger, Giant Panda and the Mountain Goat(Spanish ibex).
5.4.2. General Applications
(a)Applications in Food and Beverage Industry: A number of food products are produced on
industrial scale through the fermentation technology. Some of those products are wine, idlis, yoghurt,
cheese,  mycoproteins,  quorn,  bread  etc.  Besides  this  bio-  technology  helps  in  the  production  of
different vitamins, amino acids and vinegar etc.
(b)  Application  of  Bio-technology  in  Pharmaceuticals:  Modification  of  microorganisms,
animals  and  plants  so  as  to  get  maximum  yield  of  medicinally  useful  substances  is  called  as
pharmaceutical bio- technology. Some important examples are being given below-
(I) Production of human insulin from non- human sources.
(ii) Production of hormones like Interferon, Cytokinins, Steroids and human growth hormones.
(iii) Gene-therapy for prevention and control of diseases.
(iv) Development of vaccines and antibodies.
(c) Application of bio- technology in Agriculture: Tissue culture, cloning and hybridizationare important bio- technologies that are promoting our agriculture today. Tissue culture is important
for the propagation of high yielding varieties of plants for agriculture and floriculture. Hybridization
is the technique of combining properties of two plants or animals to produce one better hybrid plant
or  animal.  Though  this  process  frequently  occurs  in  nature,  the  adoption  of  this  technology  has
supported  the  agriculture  to  produce  more  food  to  feed  growing  population  in  many  countries.
Similarly, hybridization technology has supported animal husbandry to produce more milk and meat.
The application of bio- technology in agriculture can make it more sustainable. The introduction
of bio-fertilizers in soil can improve it’s composition besides making it fertile in a natural way.
Similarly,  the  introduction  of  bio-pesticides  can  control  pests  through  natural  ways  without
contaminating the natural environment. The development of disease resistant and pest resistant crop
varieties through bio- technological methods has further supported the agriculture.
Scientists are continuously experimenting for the improvement of crop plants like potato, tomato,
cabbage and other vegetables and fruits as well as other crop plants like sugarcane, wheat, maize etc.
to obtain better yield. Some new crop varieties like Triticale (a man made cereal) have also been
developed to add nutrients in our food and increase food production. Crop-varieties producing High
Yield are called as High Yielding Varieties (HYV).
5.4.3. Application of Biotechnology in Environmental Conservation
(a)  Application  of  Bio-technology  in  Pollution  Control:  The  natural  tendency  of
microorganisms can be exploited through bio- technology for solving the problem of wastes in the
environment.  The  crop  residues  and  animal  waste  are  used  in  making  manure  by  the  activity  of
aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. The bacterial species Pseudomonas aeruginosa has been developed
to eat away the oil spilled on the sea surface. Solid wastes like crop residues can be put inside a
biogas digester to produce biogas, a most suitable source of rural energy.
In  nature,  green  plants  control  atmospheric  carbon  dioxide  by  utilizing  it  in  photosynthesis.
Hence, plantation of more and more fast growing trees may be an important bio- technological method
of controlling carbon dioxide level of atmosphere. Plants fix carbon dioxide by the help of specific
enzyme Ribulose-bi-phosphate Carboxilase. The function of this enzyme is controlled genetically.
Hence, scientists are trying to manipulate this enzyme to increase the rate of photosynthesis for greater
reduction of atmospheric carbon dioxide level.
(b) Application of Bio- technology in Waste Water Treatment: The treatment of waste water
comprises  three  major  steps-  the  Primary  Treatment,  the  Secondary  Treatment  and  the  Tertiary
Treatment.Fig.5.6. Waste Water Treatment plant.
The primary treatment comprises many sub-steps like sedimentation, chemical coagulation and
precipitation. These sub-steps remove most of the physical impurities or pollutants. The secondary
treatment comprises biological process involving bio- technology of employing bacteria, fungi,
algae etc. for the breaking down of complex pollutants. In this process, the effluent is passed through
a microbial slime layer. The microbes present in this layer break down the organic and nitrogenous
waste liberating carbon dioxide and nitrogen dioxide. Different types of microorganisms present in
the slime layer are categorized below-
Bacteria : Pseudomonas sp., Flavobacterium sp. and Alcaligenes etc.
Fungi : Yeast and Saprolegnia sp. etc.
Algae : Stigeoclonium, Ulothrix, Phormidium and Chlorella.
(c)  Application  of  Bio-technology  in  the  degradation  of  pesticides:  Different  species  of
bacteria and fungi tend to degrade pesticides. These microorganisms can be genetically manipulated
to degrade more and more of them. Some species of bacteria like Pseudomonas sp., Flavobacterium,
Azotobacter, E. coli and Acromobacter tend to degrade different pesticides. It has been reported that
a mixture of Phenerocheate (a fungus) and enzyme peroxidase in suitable proportion can degrade
DDT.
(d) Bioremediation: The application of biotic agents like microorganisms in the correction
and recovery of environmental damage is called as bioremediation. The removal of oil spilled on
sea water by the help of bacteria is one example of bioremediation.
(e) Industrial Applications of Bio-technology: Bio-technology is currently being applied in
many areas of industry like the production of stain remover, detergents, bread, biotech-polyester,
vitamins; stone washed jeans, bleached paper etc. Here are some examples-
(i) Detergents containing protease enzyme can remove stains of proteinaceous nature both on
fabrics and lenses,
(ii) Detergents  containing  lipase  enzyme  can  remove  stains  of  oil  and  grease,  and  those
containing amylase can remove starch grains stuck with fabrics.
Now a days, polyesters are being synthesized from corn starch feed stock through the application
of bio- technology. The enzyme cellulase is used for fading of jeans. The biotechnology applied in
industrial processes is called as White Biotechnology or Grey Biotechnology. It is through this
technology that less resources are utilized in industrial processes.5
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
The microbial action on solid wastes breaks it into simpler form.
Some of the waste matter is converted into gases (mostly carbon dioxide, CO2) and the rest becomes simple to be taken in by
plants. Fungi like Asparagus, Mucor and Penicillium etc. give out specific chemicals called ENZYMES. These enzymes react with
wastes and break them up into simpler forms. Carbon dioxide is released in this process and the bulk of wastes is reduced. Fungi that
feed on dead wastes are called as SAPROPHYTIC FUNGI. Other micro-organisms like bacteria decompose wastes under two
types of conditions — (1) Aerobic conditions (2) Anaerobic conditions. Bacteria acting in presence of oxygen are called ‘aerobic’
where as those acting in absence of oxygen are called “anaerobic bacteria”.
Aerobic bacteria decompose solid wastes in air and produce carbon dioxide. They absorb nitrogen, carbon and phosphorus
from the decomposed wastes. Anaerobic decomposition occurs in the absence of oxygen. Anaerobic bacteria give out enzyme which
breaks down the wastes and produce Methane or Marsh Gas (CH4). The sulphur content is converted into sulphur dioxide (SO2).
The nutrients like nitrogen, phosphorus and carbon etc. are then taken in by anaerobic bacteria. Very much heat (upto 80°C) is
produced due to anaerobic decomposition. It kills seeds of weeds and germs present in the waste. The solid waste, for this type of
decomposition has to be covered in a pit properly to cut off oxygen supply from the air.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
BIO- TECHNOLOGY : Applications of advances made in the techniques and instrumentations of
research in biological sciences are called as bio-technology.
DNA : Deoxyribonucleic acid, called as the genetic blue print of each living cell.
ENZYMES : Catalytic  proteins,  those  are  produced  by  living  cells  and  are  helpful  in
mediating and promoting chemical processes of life without themselves being
altered in any way.
BIODEGRADABLE PLASTIC : Plastics produced by bacterial fermentation of plant materials are called as
biodegradable plastics. These are formed by chemical grouping of lactic acid.
FERMENTATION : A chemical process employed in household or industries for the manufacture
of products such as alcohols, acids, cheese, etc. by the action of yeasts, molds
and bacteria. This process is also known as zymosis.
CLONING : The Bio- technology of production of cells which are originally derived from a
single  original  cell  by  asexual  methods,  under  laboratory  conditions.  The
clones are genetically identical to their parents.
TISSUE CULTURE : Growing living tissues (of plants or animals, microorganisms) on an artificial
nutrient medium under laboratory conditions. This method is applied on large
scale in horticulture for the propagation of plants through asexual methods.
Artificial  cultures  are  done  for  the  propagation  of  disease  causing
microorganisms also, for their identification.
MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES : Specialized proteins produced in laboratory for injecting into the bodies of
organisms in order to develop immunity.
GENE THERAPY : The treatment of any physical problem or illness through replacement or
introduction of a particular gene in the body cell of a sick person, is called as
gene therapy.
VACCINE : A vaccine is a solution of weak disease causing microrg- anisms which is
injected in the body of a person in view of developing resistance / immunity
against a particular disease.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS1. Who is called as the Father of Economic Ecology in India?
2. A scientist discovered restriction enzyme in bacteria in 1960. Mention the name of this scientist.
3. Which enzyme helps plants in fixing atmospheric carbon dioxide?
4. Write the Term applied for the food modified through Genetic Engineering.
5. Name a man made creal.
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(2 marks each)
1. What is the bio- technology?
2. Define Genetic Engineering.
(ICSE specimen Question)
3. What is the Tissue Culture?
4. What is the scope of bio- technology in the field of environmental science?
5. What are enzymes?
6. Mention any two applications of biotechnology.
7. Mention the role of bio- technology in medicine.
8. How is the bio- technology helpful in the treatment of wastes?
9. Mention any two advantages of biotechnology.
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 marks each)
1. Describe the scope of Bio- technology.
2. “Biotechnology has tremendous scope for improving the quality of life.” Discuss some applications of biotechnology that are
useful to mankind.
(ICSE 2007)
3. Explain the role of biotechnology in Environmental Conservation.
(ICSE specimen Question)
4. What is the Genetic Engineering?
5. Describe any five major applications of biotechnology in the field of agriculture.
6. Describe –
(i) Applications of bio- technology in the treatment of waste water.
(ii) Monoclonal Antibody.
(iii) Applications of bio- technology in pollution control.
(iv) Applications of bio- technology in industry.
(v) Application of bio- technology in the degradation of pesticides.
7. Expand: DNA, HYV.
(ICSE 2010)
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. The manipulation of organisms to make products that benefit human beings is called as-
(a) bio- technology
(b) biology
(c) technology
(d) conservation
2. The genetic blue print of each cell is called as –
(a) chromosome
(b) DNA
(c) nucleus
(d) gene
3. Dr. H.G. Khorana, R.H.Holley and M.W.Nirenberg were awarded Nobel Prize for their work related to the synthesis of gene
for the year –
(a) 1968(b) 1971
(c) 1945
(d) 2000
4. Norman E. Borlaug, the American Agriculturist is known for his contributions related to –
(a) bio- technological instrumenta-tion
(b) food production
(c) plant diseases
(d) DNA-fingerprinting
5. The enzyme used in cutting segments of DNA is called as –
(a) restriction enzyme
(b) lipase
(c) monoclonal antibody
(d) cellulase
B. Fill in the Blanks
1. The biodegradable plastic is made from … … acid produced through bacterial fermentation of corn stalk.
2. …… are proteinaceous chemical substances of biological origin which accelerate biochemical reactions without undergoing any
change.
3. Factor- VIII is a blood clotting protein not produced in a …… person.
4. Plants in nature produce their clones through …… reproduction.
5. Genetic engineers have engineered the species of bacteria E. coli to synthesize a specific protein called as ……… .
6. The Recombinant DNA Technology is also called as ………… .
C. True / False
Write T against the statement which is True and F against the statement which is False –
1. Wine is produced through a technique known as fermentation.
2. The application of bio- technology in agriculture is a dangerous practice.
3. The application of biotic agents in the correction of environmental damage is called as bioremediation.
4. Some pesticides can be degraded by the activities of specific bacteria.
5. New DNA molecules can be created by DNA-fingerprinting technology.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Dr. M.S. Swaminathan, 2. Werner Arber 3. Ribulose- biphosphate- carboxylase, 4. GMO Food, 5. Triticale.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1. (a), 2. (b), 3. (a), 4. (b), 5. (a)
B. Fill in the Blanks
1. lactic, 2. enzymes, 3. haemophilic, 4. asexual, 5. interferon, 6. Genetic Engineering,
C. True / False
1. T, 2. F, 3. T, 4. T, 5. F.
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
5.1. FIELD WORK
Contact any five farmers and find out about the indigenous biotechnological methods they apply in agriculture.
5.2. PROJECT WORK
Prepare a project on “the Application of Bio- technology for Rural Development.”
5.3. AWARENESS
Prepare a write- up for display, on the topic “Biological Alternatives to Chemical Pollutants at Home”.

CHAPTER6
Public Awareness
Programmes and
Conservation
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction : What is Awareness?
u Concepts and Issues to be incorporated in a Public Awareness Programme
u Institutions, Organizations and Individuals concerned with Public Awareness Programmes
u Means of Communication in Public Awareness Programmes.
u National Efforts and Public Awareness Programmes
u Public Awareness Programmes Concerning Conservation
u Relevance of Indigenous Practices
u Linkages of Tribal Culture with Forest Resources and their Conservation.
6.1. INTRODUCTION : WHAT IS AWARENESS?Enormous stress has been laid on natural resources since last few decades. Due to this stress, a
number of environmental problems have emerged out on global, national and regional levels.
Environmental  problems  are  to  be  solved  by  the  people  on  all  the  different  levels  through
individual and joint efforts. For this, all the different problems concerning natural resources like
water, soil, air, forests and others; and their causes are to be understood properly by every one
including common people. Those who already understand environment, its manifestations, causes of
stress  etc.  can  devise  programmes  for  conservation  and  implement  those  programmes  involving
common  people.  For  common  people,  some  sort  of  stimulation  towards  conservation  of  natural
resources is necessary which can be done by creating awareness.
Fig. 6.1. A Public Awareness Programme in progress.
The dictionary meaning of awareness is – Knowing or realizing something or knowing and
realizing that something exists and that is important.
In  the  context  of  environment,  awareness  means;  knowing  about  environment,  realizing
different  types  of  environmental  problems  caused  by  human  activities  and  feeling  those
problems with a deep sense of responsibility.
The public awareness can be generated through different types of programmes. What is a public
awareness programme?
Well,  a  programme  formulated  and  designed  to  make  the  public  know  about  general
processes  of  environment,  its  different  resources,  needs  and  ways  of  conservation  of  those
resources etc., is known as Public Awareness Programme.
6.2. CONCEPTS AND ISSUES TO BE INCORPORATED IN A PUBLIC
AWARENESS PROGRAMME
The environmental problems are numerous and these problems vary from place to place on
global, national and regional levels. Public Awareness Programmes are designed and conducted to
develop proper insights into the basic environmental concepts and issues listed below.
1. The Biosphere and its components like plants, animals, and microorganisms,
2. Physical resources like water, air, soil etc.3. Energy, its resources and availability,
4. Human activities causing stress on environment,
5. Nature, extent and impact of human activities and all possible measures to avert the bad
impacts of these activities.
6.3. INSTITUTIONS, ORGANISATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS CONCERNED
WITH PUBLIC AWARENESS PROGRAMMES
The Public Awareness Programmes concerning conservation of resources like water, soil, air,
forests, wild animals and others, are being carried on by governments, non-government organizations,
local bodies, corporations, educational institutions, village Panchayats etc.
International Organizations like WWF (World Wide Fund for nature), Green Peace, PETA
(People for Ethical Treatment to Animals) etc. are running campaigns for the awareness regarding
conservation  of  nature  and  natural  resources.  The  fundamental  aims  of  these  international
organisations are :-
(i) Building awareness about the importance of protection of wildlife
(ii) Formulating, designing and implementing wildlife conservation programmes; and running
campaigns across the world.
Indian Organizations like: the Centre for Science and Environment, New Delhi; Vigyan
Prasar,  New  Delhi,  Govt.  of  India;  Centre  for  Environment  Education,  Ahmedabad;  Bombay
Natural  History  Society,  Mumbai;  Wildlife  Institute  of  India,  Dehradun;  Zoo  Outreach,
Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu People for Animals-New Delhi, India; several government agencies and
non- govt. organizations are running different types of Awareness and Conservation Programmes in
most effective ways.
Film Producers like Jacques Cousteau and David Attenborough have made documentaries on
several endangered species of animals so as to stimulate sense of conservation among masses. Zoo
2000,  Expedition  to  the  Animal  Kingdom,  Earth  Watch  etc.  are  names  of  some  programmes
designed to generate awareness. Besides these, some Television Channels work round the clock for
generating awareness regarding everything related to the conservation of environment.Fig. 6.2. The Vigyan Rail.
A  number  of  books  and  magazines  are  being  brought  out  by  different  organizations  for  the
creation of awareness about the conservation of natural resources. Down to Earth (published by the
Society  for  Environmental  Communications,  New  Delhi),  Journal  of  Bombay  Natural  History
Society (BNHS), Hornbill (published by BNHS-Mumbai), and Sanctuary (602, Maker Chamber,
Nariman  Point,  Mumbai)  -  are  names  of  some  important  magazines  in  this  regards.  The  “Silent
Spring” – the book authored by Rachel Carson, is a world famous book on the Pesticide Poisoning.
The Vigyan Prasar, New Delhi (India); has been running various types of programmes for the
popularization of science and conservation of environment across the country. The Vigyan Rail is its
latest effort to generate awareness about science and environment.
The Central Pollution Control Board ( Ministry of Environment and Forest, Govt. of India),
Vigyan Prasar ( Ministry of Science and Technology, Govt. of India), National Council of Science and
Technology Communications (Ministry of Science and Technology, Govt. of India), WWF-India etc.
organizations  are  catalyzing  different  programmes  run  by  other  organizations  and  functioning  of
various Eco- clubs, Nature clubs etc. in different schools of India for the generation of awareness and
development of students as environmentally conscious citizens of the world.
Factors behind Planning an Awareness Programme
(a) Ecological Factor – It relates to the importance of wise use and careful maintenance of
living systems.
(b)  Ethical  Factor  –  This  factor  relates  to  the  right  or  wrong  of  doing  something  for
conservation like: whether it is our duty to conserve natural resources and to save the earth for future
generations.
(c) Aesthetic Factor – It relates to the beauty of landscape and promotion of different religious,
cultural and traditional practices of conservation.
(d) Economic Factor – It relates to the growth of economy through conservation and expenses
involved in the awareness programme.6.4. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION IN PUBLIC AWARENESS
PROGRAMMES
There are several ways of communicating messages in public awareness programmes like Tree
Plantation,  Commercial  Advertising,  News  Paper  Articles,  Postal  Stationary,  Films,  books  etc.
Puppet Shows,  Folk  Songs,  Street  Hoardings,  Padyatras,  Nukkar  Nataks(street  theatres),  Rallies,
Radio Broadcasts, Nature Walk, Eco- tourism, Class Room Lectures, Seminars, Symposia etc. are
some other effective ways of communication in such programmes. Besides these, visual displays (like
flipcharts,  posters  etc.),  handouts,  slides,  overhead  projectors  and  transparencies,  videos,  film
shows, street hoardings, competitions in schools (like essay writing, painting, poster making, debates,
discussions,  exhibitions  etc.,)  are  other  effective  means  of  communication  in  public  awareness
programmes where constraints of space, time and money come in the way.
Fig. 6.3. Scene of a Puppet Show.
6.5. NATIONAL EFFORTS AND PUBLIC AWARENESS PROGRAMMES
The Government of India is promoting Public Awareness through its different programmes. It has
created an Environmental Information System (ENVIS) – network to disseminate information about
environment. The Ministry has launched a portal at URL.http://www.envis.nic.in, to connect all the
ENVIS- centers. The inclusion of Environmental Education as a separate and compulsory subject in
the education curricula at all levels is a major step towards creation of environmental awareness.
The Central Ministry of Human Resources Development (HRD) organizes different types of
training programmes, seminars, workshops, eco- clubs, National Green Corps (NGC) etc. for the
creation  of  awareness  among  different  sections  of  the  Indian  societies.  The  Central  Ministry  of
Environment  and  Forests  has  been  organizing  National  Environmental  Awareness  Campaigns
(NEAC) every year through various reputed non- government organizations in different regions of the
country. Currently, the Government of India is conducting Global Learning and Observation to
Benefit the Environment  (GLOBE)  and  International  Scheme  and  Education  Programme.  These
programmes are being conducted with hands-on participatory approach.6.6. PUBLIC AWARENESS PROGRAMMES CONCERNING
CONSERVATION
Conservation in the current age has become economic, religious, cultural and political issue.
Pad Yatras, Rallies and Marches are being conducted by people in different parts of the country in
order to conserve water, soil, forests, air and wildlife through peoples’ own ways. We have studied
about  the  CHIPKO  movement  of  Garhwal  Himalayas  (June,  1973)  in  class  VIII.  The  chipko
movement was started under the leadership of sarvodaya workers Chandi Prasad Bhatt, Sarala Dewi
and Sundarlal Bahuguna etc., under the banner of Dashouli Gram Swarajya Sangh(DGSS). We have
also  studied  about  many  other  conservation  programmes  run  by  local  people,  like-  Appiko,
Sukhomanjari, Silent Valley Movement, Joint Forest Management in West Bengal, Bisnois and
the Narmada Bachao Andolan. The Narmada Bachao Andolan is still continued under the leadership
of the social activist Medha Patkar since last two decades. After the construction of the Sardar
Sarovar Dam(SSD), the NBA is continued against raising the height of the dam( from the current
110.64 meters to 121.92 meters) and in favour of rehabilitation of 24000 families of 177 villages.
Fig. 6.4. The Sardar Sarovar Dam: A Mammoth Project.
The seriousness of the problems with water, soil, air, forests and wildlife is important to be
known for devising appropriate strategies for their conservation. The pollution of water, soil and air;
the depletion of forests; the degradation of soil and loss of species of flora and fauna are primary
problems of environment that need to be solved through making the public aware of the seriousness of
these problems.
Different awareness programmes for conservation of these resources like Tree Plantation, Van
Mahotsav,  Regeneration  of  forests,  Social  forestry,  Agro-  forestry,  Installation  of  Solar  Energy
Devices, application of Pollution Free Technologies, cleaning of rivers and lakes etc. are certain
programmes that are being conducted for the conservation of resources. Not only governments alone,
but thousands of non-government organizations are busy round the year for creating public awareness
concerning the status and conservation of these resources.6.7. RELEVANCE OF INDIGENOUS PRACTICES
India has a long history of conservation. The sense of conservation is deeply rooted in the
traditions  and  cultures  of  different  Indian  societies.  In  many  other  countries  also,  the  traditional
societies are conserving their resources through indigenous practices since long. The social forestry
or raising Village Gardens in the villages of Java is one important example in this regard.
enviro_Facts : 06
Some important indigenous practices of conservation observed in India are:
(a) The  construction  of  ponds  for  water  storage  and  community  water  supply  have  been  ancient  practices  of  water
conservation in India. The Archaeological Survey of India has reported about a 2000 years old pond at Shringavera Pur
in Allahabad district of U.P.
(b) The collection and use of rain water.
(c) Growing Sacred Groves as a part of religious and cultural practice by the tribal people of Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh,
Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and other Indian states and even of many other countries like Greece and Rome etc.
(d) The worship of the sun, the moon, the earth, rivers, stones, animals and trees in traditional Hindu societies.
(e) The indigenous practices of storage of grains, management of pests and weeds, treatment of humans and cattle by the
application of medicinal herbs.
(f) The indigenous practice of summer cultivation of fields for solarisation, destruction of weeds and insect- pests.
(g) The celebration of festivals connected to the worship of nature like the celebration of Sarhul, Karma etc. by the tribal
people of Jharkhand and other Indian states and the Earth Dance of tribal people of Jharkhand.
Following is the relevance of indigenous practices in nature conservation -
(i) The indigenous practices of conservation are carried on by local people as participatory
activities. These practices are helpful in strengthening the local resource bases.
The sense of conservation, rooted deep in religions and cultures is very important in view
(ii)
of conservation of nature.
The construction of community ponds, check dams and other water harvesting systems are
(iii)
very important for the maintenance of microclimate.
(iv) The indigenous techniques of conservation are cheaper and sustainable.
6.8. LINKAGES OF TRIBAL CULTURE WITH FOREST RESOURCES AND
THEIR CONSERVATION
The  word  ‘tribal’  is  usually  associated  with  another  word  which  is  ‘forest’.  The  tribal
communities of different types have been living in forests in different parts of the world, since time
immemorial. Thus forests serve as habitats for those people and in true sense, these habitats provide
them everything for their livelihood. So, forests and forest resources have close linkages with tribal
communities  and  with  their  culture.  Some  of  the  important  linkages  of  the  tribal  culture  with
conservation of resources are reflected in following examples.
(i) Since most of the tribal people live in forests, forests are as dear to them as their homes.
Hence, they do their best to protect forests from other people.
(ii) The tribal people derive seeds and fruits from forests.
(iii) Some most traditional tribal societies living in remote forests still cover their bodies with
leaves; make leaf- umbrellas and grass- huts.
(iv) The  tribal  people  derive  medicines  from  forest  trees  and  herbs  and  they  have  rich
knowledge of medicinal herbs.
(v) Many  tribal  societies  earn  money  by  selling  forest  produce  like  ber,  mahua(Madhucaindica), tree leaves( for making plates and selling them in markets) and even wood.
(vi) Tribal societies get protection in forests and worship forest trees and grasses (especially
doob or durva = Cynodon dactylon) during their social customs and religious ceremonies.
We have already studied that tribal people of Jharkhand and some other states of India, worship
sacred groves they call as Sarana(in Jharkhand), Dewarakadu(in Karnataka), Deorais(in Madhya
Pradesh) etc. Sarana is the name of tribal religion also, in Jharkhand.
6
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
RAIN WATER HARVESTING IN THE NORTH-EASTERN INDIA
(With Special Reference to Mizoram)
Mizoram is one of the smallest states in India having an area of only 21,000 sq. Km. It is located in the extreme North East of
India bordering Myanmar and Bangladesh. The state is entirely mountainous covered with lush green vegetation. The mountains
range in a North - South direction and the rivers flow in either a North or South direction. The highest peak namely Blue Mountain is
only 7100 feet high and the climate of Mizoram is moderate. Towns and villages in Mizoram are mostly located on hilltops or on the
upper reaches of the hills. Since perennial streams and rivers are located much below the habitations, scarcity of water in the dry
season is very common. The whole state enjoys abundant monsoon rainfall during the rainy season extending five or six months in a
year.
Springs on the hill slope and valleys are the main water supply sources in the villages. In the dry period the yield from springs
gets reduced drastically. During the worst dry periods one has to wait long hours to obtain just a bucketful of water from the spring
sources. Spring water supplemented by rainwater harvesting still remains today, the main means of water supply in many villages and
outskirts of towns.
Through their skill and experience, the people living in hills and mountains of North-eastern India have developed a number of
novel practices of farming, checking soil erosion, preventing landslides, and yes – of conserving water. Cropping in terraces along hill
slopes is an age-old practice developed by tribal people. Tribals of Mizoram and Nagaland are expert in cutting beautiful terraces
along mountain slopes. This system of cropping is beneficial in retaining fertility of soil; preventing land slides and checking soil
erosion. Secondly, it is helpful in retaining the moisture of soil and conserving water, also. How are the terraced fields irrigated? Well,
here is the answer.
The terraced fields are irrigated by a network of water- channels of bamboos that reach to every field. The terraces are
graduated in so nice and scientific ways that water flows conveniently through the bamboo channels and irrigates the crop fields.
Sometimes holes are made in the bamboo-pipes that facilitate the flow of water in drips. Thus the water is saved against any wastage
during the process of irrigation. This system of irrigation is called as “Bamboo-drip Irrigation System”.
The loss of forests and less density of trees in certain regions has altered the pattern of rainfall in some districts of the North –
eastern India including Mizoram and Nagaland. The water cycle in these regions has badly been altered and the sources of water
have become inefficient. With the skill and experience, the people of these areas have developed a novel method of rain water
harvesting and water conservation which is called as Zabo System of Rain water Harvesting.
The word “Zabo” means – impounding of water. The indigenous system of conservation of rain water in Mizoram and
Nagaland, through which water is collected and stored in ponds for irrigation and other purposes, is called as the Zabo
system of water conservation. The harvesting of water through this system is done by collecting rain water in catchments along
mountain slopes. A Pond is dug to store water of the catchment area and all the water flowing down through terraces is facilitated to
accumulate into it. The water thus accumulated in ponds is used for various purposes including irrigation. The Government of
Mizoram has started a number of projects of water conservation. Rainwater harvesting and spring developments were taken up as a
Government Programme. The Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Mission, aiming at providing drinking water to every person,
sanctioned a substantial fund for rooftop rainwater harvesting tanks. As many as 198 villages in Mizoram have benefited from the
scheme.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
DECADE : A period of ten years.ENVIRONMENTAL : Knowing  about  environment,  realizing  different  types  of  environmental
AWARENESS problems caused due to human activities and feeling those problems with
deep sense of responsibility is called as environmental awareness.
PUBLIC  AWARENESS : A programme formulated and designed to make the public know about
PROGRAMME general process of environment, its different resources, needs and ways of
conservation  of  those  resources  etc.,  is  known  as  public  awareness
programme.
CAMPAIGN : A series of planned activities that are intended to achieve a particular social,
commercial or political aim is called as a campaign.
National Council of Science and Technology Communications, New Delhi
(India)  -  It  does  the  work  of  science  and  technology  communications,
NCSTC :
popularization of science and technology; awareness of environment and
inculcation of scientific temper among the people.
VIGYAN RAIL : The NCSTC ( the government of India), declared the year 2004, as the year
of Scientific Awareness. The Vigyan Rail, Scientific Jathas, interaction of
scientists with common men, were some of the activities undertaken to
celebrate the year of scientific awareness.
The Vigyan Rail or the Science on Wheels, is a train of Indian Railways
equipped with exhibits of science and technology by Rashtriya Vigyan Evam
Prodyogiki  Sanchar  Parishad  (RVPSP),  Department  of  Science  and
th
Technology, Govt.of India. In the year 2005, this rail was flagged off on 26
April, from Safdarjung Railway Station (Delhi) by Union Minister of State
for Science and Technology and Ocean Development. Now, it is being
called as Vigyan Mail.
POSTAL STATIONARY : The  stationary  belonging  to  the  postal  Department,  like  postal  stamps,
envelops inland letters, aero grams, money order forms etc.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. A number of environmental problems have emerged out on global, national and regional levels since last few decades. Why?
Answer in one sentence.
2. What do you mean by awareness? Answer in one sentence.
3. Name any one national and any one international organization encouraging environmental awareness programmes on their own
levels.
4. In which Indian city is the Wildlife Institute of India located?
5. The indigenous techniques of conservation of environment are being given much importance now a days. Why? Answer in one
sentence.
6. Mention names of any two states where sacred groves are found.
7. Name any one ancient practice of water harvesting.
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(2 marks each)
1. What do you mean by the Public Awareness Programme?
2. What are important concepts and issues that should be incorporated in a public awareness programme?
3. How are institutions, organizations and individuals associated with public awareness programmes concerning conservation of
natural resources? Mention main points only.
4. How can films and television channels co-operate in creating public awareness for the protection of our environment? Answer
as per your own thought and experience.
5. ‘You are the secretary of the eco- club of your school’-Mention any four programmes you can organize through your eco-club
for building awareness among students for the protection and preservation of school environment.
6. What is an Eco- club? Why and how is it formed?
7. What is the relevance of indigenous practices in the conservation of natural resources?
8. How is the culture of the tribal people linked with the resources of forests and their conservation?
9. Write the full form of PETA. State one aim of this organisations.(ICSE 2005)
10. List any two methods of insitu conservation.
(ICSE 2010)
11. Name any two techniques by which new crop strains are produced.
(ICSE 2010)
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 marks each)
1. What may be the principal means of communication in a Public Awareness Programme? Name some national and international
organizations encouraging and supporting public awareness programmes for the conservation of natural environment.
2. Write an essay on ‘Importance of Public Awareness Programmes for the conservation of nature.’
3. Explain- “Water Harvesting in Mizoram.”
(ICSE-2005)
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. Sanctuary – is the name of-
(a) a book
(b) a film
(c) a magazine
(d) a sacred tree
2. Which one of the following can not be used as means of communication in a Public Awareness Programmes for environmental
conservation …?
(a) postal stationary
(b) street theatre
(c) video
(d) a flower show
3. The functions of the National Green Corps (NGC) are related to –
(a) environment
(b) awareness
(c) military training
(d) forest guards
4. Which one of the following is not an environment friendly activity…?
(a) tree plantation
(b) nature worship
(c) water harvesting
(d) whaling
5. The World Environment Day is celebrated on-
(a) 26 January
(b) 5 June
(c) 15 August
(d) 14 November
6. The Chipko Movement was led by –
(a) Sundar Lal Bahuguna
(b) C.P. Bhatt and Sarla Dewi
(c) Medha Patkar
(d) Arundhati Roy
B. Fill in the Blanks
1. The indigenous practice of digging …… is related to community water supply.
2. The solarization of fields is related to the destruction of …… .
3. Sarana is the religion of ……… people.
4. Dewarakadu is the name of sacred groves in ……… state of India.
5. Films and educational resource materials can be used in …… awareness programmes.
C. True / False
Write T against the statement which is True and F against the statement which is False-1. Knowing about maximum utilization of natural resources is called as environmental awareness.
2. Awareness Programmes are designed and conducted to develop insight into environmental concepts and issues.
3. WWF is the organization basically concerned with wrestling.
4. Jacques Cousteau and David Attenborough jointly wrote the book Silent Spring.
5. Vigyan Prasar, New Delhi, is running various types of programmes related to popularization of science, technology and
environment.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Because, enormous stress has been laid down on natural resources. 2. Knowing or realizing something, 3.National
Organization: Centre for Science and Environment, New Delhi (India); International Organization: Green Peace, Washington
DC, USA. 4. Dehradun, 5. Because, these techniques are cheap and sustainable, 6.Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, 7.
Construction of ponds.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1.(c), 2.(d), 3.(b), 4.(d), 5.(b), 6.(b)
B. Fill in the Blanks
1. Ponds, 2.insect- pests 3. Tribal, 4.Karnataka, 5.public.
C.True / False
1.F, 2.T, 3.F, 4.F, 5.T,
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
6.1. PROJECT
Design a project for the creation of awareness about the conservation of water in your area.
6.2. SURVEY
Do a survey of indigenous knowledge about the conservation of natural resources, available in your area. Make a list of all
those activities and explain - how they are important. Can you make suggestions for improving those practices? If yes, mention them
separately. Now, prepare a complete report including importance of these practices and your suggestions for further improvement.2
POLLUTION
7. Types and Sources of Pollution
8. Effects and Abatement of Pollution

CHAPTER7
Types and Sources
of Pollution
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction : Types of Pollution
u Air Pollution
u Sources of Air Pollution
u Major Air Pollutants
u Water Pollution
u Sources of Water Pollution
u Major Water Pollutants
u Soil Pollution
u Sources of Soil Pollution
u Major Soil Pollutants
u Radiation Pollution
u Noise Pollution
u Marine Pollution: Oil Spillsu Sources of Marine Pollution
u Major Pollutants Causing Marine Pollution
u The Oil Spills
7.1. INTRODUCTION : TYPES OF POLLUTION
Our natural resources are known to have some specific qualities of their own. These qualities
are known as natural qualities. It is due to specific natural qualities that different natural resources
have been useful to us and to the whole biosphere. But now, the condition has changed considerably.
Most of our natural resources like air, water and soil have gone bad due to pollution of different
types. What is pollution?
The condition of mixing unwanted and harmful substances in our natural resources so as to
alter their natural qualities and to make them unfit for use, is called as pollution. Agents causing
pollution are known as pollutants.
Different types of pollutions are – Air Pollution, Water Pollution, Soil Pollution, Radiation
Pollution  and  Noise  Pollution.  In  this  chapter,  we  are  going  to  study  about  different  types  of
pollutions and their sources.
Pollutants, on the basis of their origin, have been divided into two different categories – Primary
and secondary. A primary pollutant is the pollutant emitted directly from a source. On the other hand,
a secondary pollutant is not directly emitted as such, but formed when other pollutants (primary
pollutants) react in the atmosphere. Examples of secondary pollutant include ozone, which is formed
when hydrocarbons (HC) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) combine in the presence of sunlight; NO2, which
is formed as NO combines with oxygen in the air; and acid rain, which is formed when sulfur dioxide
or nitrogen oxides react with water.
Pollutants have been divided into biodegradable and non-biodegradable categories-
Biodegradable pollutants  are  the  ones  that  can  be  broken  down  and  processed  by  living
organisms, including organic waste products, phosphates, and inorganic salts. These pollutants can be
neutralized and converted into harmless compounds by the activities of microorganisms. However, it
is important to remember that these pollutants can be serious if released in large amounts in small
areas, thus exceeding the natural capacity of the environment to “assimilate” them.
Non-biodegradable pollutants are the ones that cannot be decomposed by living organisms and
therefore persist in the ecosphere for long periods of time. These include bottles, cans, plastics,
metal, some pesticides and herbicides, and radioactive isotopes. Non-biodegradable pollutants are
dangerous because living organisms have neither enzymes capable of processing these pollutants nor
defensive systems against them.
7.2. AIR POLLUTION
The condition of mixing of undesirable substances in the air so as to alter its natural quality
is called as air pollution. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the air pollution can
be defined as – the condition produced due to ‘substances put into air by the activity of mankind
into concentration sufficient to cause harmful effects to his health, vegetables, property or to
interfere with the enjoyment of his property’.Fig. 7.1. Scattering of Pollen Grains: A Natural source of air Pollution.
7.2.1. Sources of Air Pollution
The air pollution is caused either through natural processes or through human activities. On
this basis sources of air pollution have been divided into two broad categories: A- Natural Sources
and, B-Anthropogenic Sources.
A. NATURAL SOURCES
The natural phenomena like volcanic activities, dust storms, forest fires, scattering of pollen
grains, and release of hydrocarbons from plants are natural sources of air pollution.
B. ANTHROPOGENIC SOURCES
These sources comprise sources of air pollution connected to human activities. Different types
of anthropogenic sources of air pollution are being discussed below.
1.  Domestic  Sources:  Heating  and  cooking  activities  in  homes  produce  different  types  of
pollutants  like-Carbon  dioxide,  Carbon  monoxide,  Sulphur  dioxide,  Nitrogen  dioxide,  Carbon
particles, and dusts etc. These pollutants cause indoor air pollution in unscientifically built houses.
Heating plants employed in homes and apartments are considered to be fourth largest source of air
pollution.
2. Automobile Sources: Automobiles are regarded as greatest sources of air pollution. Cars,scooters, motor cycles etc. are some of the automobile sources of air pollution. About one- fifth of the
air pollution in cities is caused through these sources.
Pollution caused by emissions joining the atmosphere through tailpipes of vehicles, is called
as  vehicular  pollution.  The  pollutants  so  released  into  the  atmosphere,  are  called  as  Primary
Pollutants.  Once,  the  primary  pollutants  get  released  into  the  atmosphere,  they  react  with  other
pollutants in the air and form more serious pollutants. Now, these pollutants are called as secondary
pollutants. The large majority of today’s cars and trucks run by using internal combustion engines that
burn  gasoline  or  other  fossil  fuels.  The  process  of  burning  gasoline  to  power  cars  and  trucks
contributes to air pollution by releasing a variety of emissions into the atmosphere. Emissions that are
released directly into the atmosphere from the tailpipes of cars and trucks are the primary source of
vehicular pollution. But motor vehicles also pollute the air during the processes of manufacturing,
refueling, and from the emissions associated with oil refining and distribution of the fuel they burn.
Fig. 7.2. Smoke from diesel rail engine causing pollution.
3.  Industrial  Processors:  Metallurgical  plants  and  smelters,  chemical  plants,  petroleum
refineries, pulp and paper mills, sugar mills, cotton mills, synthetic rubber manufacturing plants etc.
come under this category of industrial sources of air pollution.
4. Transport Industry: Public Transport System, ships, aeroplanes, trucks, diesel rail engines,
etc. come under this category.
5. Agricultural Sources: These sources include many chemicals like insecticides, herbicides,
fungicides, rodenticides, pollen grains, crop residues etc.
6. Construction and demolition sources: Construction and demolition activities generate lots of
wastes. Different types of paints and other chemicals used in furnishing of houses and furniture cause
serious pollutions.
7. Industrial Accidents: Accidents use to occur in different industries from time to time due to
carelessness of workers and old machines. These accidents cause serious pollutions that produce
long lasting impacts on life and property.An accident occurred in the Union Carbide factory of Bhopal city of Madhya Pradesh state of
India on December 3, 1984. This industrial accident resulted in the immediate deaths of more than
3,000 people, according to the Indian Supreme Court. A more probable figure is that 8,000 died
within two weeks, and it is estimated that an additional 8,000 have since died from gas related
diseases. A Union Carbide subsidiary pesticide plant released 42 tonnes of Methyl Isocyanate
(MIC) gas, exposing at least 520,000 people to the toxic gas. The Bhopal disaster is frequently cited
as the world’s worst industrial disaster. The International Medical Commission on Bhopal was
established in 1993 to respond to the disasters.
8. Dumps of Wastes: Large amounts of wastes are routinely generated through human activities.
These wastes are dumped carelessly here and there to create ugly scenes. The biodegradable wastes
gradually decompose to produce methane (CH ) which is a serious pollutant if generated in big
4
volumes. A number of germs of diseases develop at dumping sites and get disseminated through the
agency of wind and water.
7.2.2. Major Air Pollutants
Substances that cause pollution of air are called as air- pollutants. These pollutants can be put
into two broad categories A. Gaseous Pollutants, and B. Particulates.
A. GASEOUS POLLUTANTS
The gaseous pollutants causing air pollution are numerous. Some remarkable gaseous pollutants
in the present context are being mentioned below.
1. Sulphur dioxide: Sulphur dioxide (SO ) and sulphur tri- oxide (SO ) are produced largely by
2 3
the combustion of coal and petroleum. These are also produced through smelting of ores of sulphide,
copper, zinc, and lead; and decomposition of bio-mass. Some industries that emit sulphur dioxide are
industries  manufacturing  sulphuric  acid  (H SO ),  oil  refineries,  fertilizer  industries  and  paper
2 4
industries.
2. Hydrogen sulphide: It is a colorless toxic gas which is produced from decaying vegetation
and animal materials particularly in shallow fresh water and marine environment. It also comes out
from sulphur springs, volcanoes, coal pits and sewers.
3. Carbon monoxide: It is a poisonous gas which originates from incomplete combustion of
carbonaceous materials. It can also be oxidized to carbon dioxide which too is a poisonous gas.Fig. 7.3. Bleaching of Plant leaves by Air Pollution.
4. Hydrogen fluoride: It naturally comes out from volcanoes. However, it is produced from
blast furnaces and industries concerned with the production of brick, tiles and super phosphates. It
also comes out during combustion of coal.
5.  Hydrogen  chloride:  It  comes  out  during  the  combustion  of  coal,  paper,  plastics  and
chlorinated hydrocarbons.
6.  Hydrocarbons:  Chemical  compounds  made  of  hydrogen  and  carbon,  are  called  as
hydrocarbons. Methane, ethylene and aniline are three examples of hydrocarbons. Methane is the
principal constituent of the natural gas. Major sources of release of hydrocarbons are organic
matter,  seepage  from  natural  gas  and  oil  fields  and  emissions  of  Volatile  Organic  Chemicals
(VOCs).  Hydrocarbons  are  also  produced  due  to  incomplete  combustion  of  fuels,  automobile
exhausts, petroleum refineries, burning of crop residues, cracking of natural gas in petrochemical
plants etc.
7. Ammonia: This gas is principally generated through refrigerator pre- cooler system of cold
storage, manufacture of anhydrous ammonium fertilizers, nitric acid and domestic incineration etc.
The emission of ammonia causes bleaching of plant-leaves, reduction of root and shoots growth,
browning and softening of fruits, reduction in the rate of germination etc.
8. Nitrogen Oxides: Nitrogen oxide and Nitric Oxide are principal gaseous pollutants emitted
through human activities. Nitrogen oxides have been reported to cause fading of colours of clothes,
deterioration of nylon and cotton and corrosion of metals.
9. Tobacco Smoke: Smoking of cigarettes and allied things generate tobacco smoke. It is a
potent pollutant in closed atmosphere like buses; trains e.t.c. It causes lung cancer, pulmonary and
coronary heart diseases. Even passive smokers may be caught by a pulmonary or a coronary disease.
B. PARTICULATES
Solid  and  liquid  aerosols  that  remain  suspended  in  the  atmosphere  are  called  as
particulates. These are produced by human activities related to condensation or dispersion. The
particulate matter can produce toxicity and respiratory problems like bronchitis and emphysema.
Fluorides, lead, cement dust, potassium salts etc. are example of some other particulates.Fig. 7.4. Arjuna: A dust collecting tree
Particulate matter present as pollutant in the air can be put into different groups like dust, smoke,
soot, aerosols, fumes, smog, haze and mist.
1. Dust: Particles of different sizes (from 1 micron to 200 microns) produced due to crushing of
stones, weathering of rocks and digging of upper crust of the earth are called as dust. The dust
particles are blown away and lifted up in air due to stormy conditions of atmosphere. However, they
settle down due to gravitational pull of the earth or are washed down by rain water.
2. Smoke: Fine carbon particles (0.50 to 1 micron) along with gases produced due to the
incomplete combustion of organic matter is called as smoke.
Fig. 7.5. Smog: It reduces visibility and often causes serious health hazards.
3. Soot: Bigger particles of carbon (1 to 10 micron) hanging in air along with tar, are called as
soot.
4. Aerosol: Fine particles of solids, liquids or gases suspended in air are called as aerosol.
5. Fumes: Particles of gaseous pollutants (0.08 to 1 micron) in the state of condensation arecalled as fumes.
6. Smog: Mixture of smoke particles and vapors of liquids formed due to photo- chemical
reactions is called as smog. It reduces visibility and often causes a serious health hazard.
7. Haze: Dust particles and water vapour present in air so as to reduce visibility, is called as
haze.
8. Mist: The suspension of liquid particles in air ranging from 40 to 500 microns is called as
mist.
7.3. WATER POLLUTION
Mixing of different solid, liquid or gaseous substances and microorganisms into water, so as
to  alter  its  natural  qualities  is  called  as  water  pollution.  According  to  the  National  Water
Commission (1973), “water gets polluted if it has not been of sufficiently high quality to be suitable
for the highest uses people wish to make of it at present or in future.”
7.3.1. Sources of water pollution
The sources of water pollution can be grouped into different heads, like Municipal sources,
Industrial sources, Agricultural sources, Shipping sources and Underground sources.
1.  Municipal  Sources:  These  sources  of  water  pollution  comprise  residential  colonies,
mohallahs, hospitals, small industries, offices, institutions etc. The pollutants released from these
sources reach to drains from where they are carried to ponds, lakes and rivers.
2. Industrial Sources: Petrochemical workshops, synthetic fertilizer industries, oil refineries,
paper  mills,  textile  industries,  sugar  mills,  iron  and  steel  industries,  leather  industries,  wine
industries, rubber industries, fiber industries, plastic industries, and many others are sources of water
pollution. These industries produce different types of poisonous by- products that are released into
streams which join rivers.
3. Agricultural Sources: Different types of agrochemicals like synthetic fertilizers, pesticides,
hormones, soils of crop fields, dung of cattle, wastes of dairies etc. are remarkable agricultural
sources of water pollution.Fig. 7.6. Ships carrying wastes contaminate marine water day and night.
4.  Shipping  Sources:  Ships  moving  in  seas  and  oceans  release  lots  of  wastes  into  water.
Besides human wastes, lots of oil and other products from ships contaminate marine water, day and
night.
5. Sources of Underground Pollution: The underground water is polluted by mixing of wastes
seeped into the earth from the heaps of wastes and industrial dumps. Different types of germs of
diseases  that  are  produced  in  the  accumulated  wastes  on  ground,  also  seep  into  the  earth  and
contaminate the ground water.
7.3.2. Major Water Pollutants
There are different types of pollutants that mix into water and make it unfit for use by humans,
animals,  and  even  by  plants.  These  pollutants  can  be  kept  under  different  groups  like  sewage,
infectious microorganisms, plant nutrients, organic chemicals, inorganic chemicals, and sediments
etc.
1. Sewage: Some materials get mixed into water where microorganisms start their degradation
to  produce  carbon  dioxide,  methane  and  other  gases.  The  oxygen  found  dissolved  in  water  is
consumed in this process of degradation. Due to this an artificial crisis of oxygen into water is
created which kills many aquatic organisms.
The oxygen needed for complete degradation of sewage found in the polluted water is called
as  Biological  Oxygen  Demand.  Testing  of  BOD  is  a  5-  day  long  laboratory  process.  BOD  is
measured in mg / L.
2. Infectious Microorganisms: The effluent released from leather industries, slaughter houses
and toilets contain numerous types of bacteria and microorganisms. Dumps of wastes near water
bodies produce vast varieties of germs that go into the water during rains through the surface runoffs.
These germs may be the germs of cholera, typhoid, diarrhea, dysentery and skin diseases.
3. Plant Nutrients: Plant nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorous reach to water bodies andstimulate the growth of aquatic plants in them. Thus, the water gets enriched by nutrients causing
eutrophication. It is the eutrophication which gradually converts lakes and ponds into marshes and
swamps.
4. Exotic Organic Chemicals: Surfactants and detergents, pesticides etc., are called as exotic
organic chemicals. Many of these substances are non- biodegradable.
5.  Inorganic  chemicals  and  inorganic  compounds:  These  pollutants  enter  into  water  from
municipal and industrial wastes and urban runoffs.
6. Sediments: Considerable amounts of soil and silt are washed away from logged hillsides,
ploughed fields and construction sites. These fine particles carried away by water are called as
sediments. The sediments that join streams reach to rivers and estuaries where they cover gravel beds
and deprive fishes like Trout and Salmon against spawning. Sediments block gills of fishes also.
7.4. SOIL POLLUTION
Mixing of different types of substances in soil which affects its natural qualities and causes
reduction in its fertility, is called as soil pollution. Some environmentalists define soil pollution as –
build up of toxic chemical compounds, salts, pathogens or radio active materials in soil that can affect
plant and animal life adversely.
A polluted soil often contains varieties of germs of diseases. Some of those diseases are –
anthrax, typhoid, leptospirosis, bacillary dysentery, cholera etc. A big amount of soil is lost due to
soil erosion, storms, overgrazing and deforestation. This loss of soil is often called as negative soil
pollution.
7.4.1. Sources of Soil Pollution
There are many different sources of soil pollution. These are being introduced ahead.
A. Domestic Sources of Soil Pollution: Wastes produced due to domestic activities are called
as  domestic  wastes.  Food  leftovers,  peeling  of  fruits  and  vegetables,  ash,  paper  bits,  packets,
polythene bags, glass bottles, tin cans, used tyres, expired medicines etc. are some examples of
domestic wastes that are often dumped on the ground. These wastes alter the soil composition and
make it bad for the growth and development of plants.
B. Municipal Sources: Different types of municipal wastes dumped on the ground cause bad
impacts on soil. These wastes act as shelter homes of various types of insects and germs of diseases.
C. Industrial Sources: Industries dump lots of wastes on land. These wastes create ugly scenes
on ground and contaminate soil making it unfit for productive utilization. A number of toxic wastes
seep into the ground and cause underground water pollution.
D. Agricultural Sources: Agro- chemicals used in agriculture produce adverse effects on soil.
Synthetic fertilizers, if used continuously for a long time alter the composition of soil, making it unfit
for the growth and development of plants.
Faulty irrigation practices cause water logging. The water is evaporated in the sun leaving
behind salts in the soil. Thus soil gradually becomes saline and unfit for plant growth.
E. Mining Sources: Mining activities cause long lasting damages to the soil. Tailings, slags,
stones etc. that come out of mines are dumped near them. Besides these, different types of toxic
chemicals are exposed due to mining which further cause serious soil and water pollution during
rains.F. Wastes:  The  electronic  wastes  generated  through  the  disposal  of  electronic  goods,  like
computers, televisions, wires, and plastic cabinets etc. which are often dumped on the ground, create
serious pollution on land.
7.4.2. Major Soil Pollutants
(i) Toxic Chemicals from industries,
(ii) Pesticides, herbicides and synthetic fertilizers,
(iii) Fly ash from thermal power stations,
(iv) Chemicals from sugar mills, pulp and paper mills, refineries, distilleries etc.
(v) Wastes from leather and rubber industries,
(vi) The domestic garbage dumped on land,
(vii) E- Wastes Or Wastes generated from electronics industries like computers CDs, Floppies,
wires, Mother boards etc.,
7.5. RADIATION POLLUTION
Any form of ionizing or non-ionizing radiation that results from human activities is called as
Radiation Pollution. The most well known radiation results from the detonation of nuclear devices
and the controlled release of energy.
Radiation Pollution or Radioactive pollution can be defined as the  release  of  radioactive
substances or high-energy particles into our natural resources as a result of human activity,
either by accident or by design. In other words, radio active pollution is uncontrolled distribution
of radioactive material in a given environment. Even a small amount of radiation exposure can
have serious (and cumulative) biological consequences. Many radioactive wastes remain toxic for
centuries. Hence, radiation pollution is a serious environmental concern.
Nuclear  Power  Plants,  transport  and  disposal  of  nuclear  wastes,  mining  of  radioactive
substances, fall out of bomb explosions, nuclear weapons, testing of nuclear devices and nuclear
accidents etc. are major sources of radiation pollution. These sources cause permanent damages to
life and property. A nuclear reactor accident took place in 1986 in Chernobyl, Ukraine which killed at
least 31 people and forced more than 200,000 people to vacate and relocate.
Radiation  pollution  may  be  both  –  Natural  and  Man-  made.  Cosmic  radiations,  ultra  violet
radiations etc. are examples of Natural Radiations. The application of explosive devices, testing of
bombs, leakage from nuclear reactors etc. are man made sources of radiation pollution.
Radio active substances emit rays like alpha (α) rays, gamma (γ) rays and beta (β)rays. These
rays are emitted from unstable radioactive substances so as to become stable. In this way these are
gradually reduced in their value. The time taken by a radioactive substance to get reduced up to
the half of its initial value is called as half life period. The unit applied to express the decay of a
radio active substance is called as Becquerel.
The problem of radioactive pollution is compounded by the difficulty in assessing its effects.
Radioactive waste  may  spread  over  a  broad  area  quite  rapidly  and  irregularly.  The  radiations
emitted from these radioactive substances penetrate human bodies and those of other organisms and
get deposited therein. These radiations produce dangerous effects into the form of cancer or other
chronic disease even after a decade.7.6. NOISE POLLUTION
Sound without value is called as noise. In other words, unwanted sound is called as noise. It
is observed in daily life that what is pleasant to some people may be extremely unpleasant to
others. This depends on a number of factors out of those human health conditions and daily life
situations are more common. If you are preparing for your examinations that are overhead, you cannot
tolerate the high pitched sound of a loudspeaker broadcasting some film-song or even a bhajan. The
music reaching to your ears from the loudspeaker disturbs the natural and routine process of your
study, and hence it is causing noise pollution for you. Others may not take it as noise pollution. But a
high pitched sound is always harmful for your ears, and the brain at least. You might have seen
hoardings having written “Silence Please” or “thanks for not blowing horns” – near a hospital or a
school.
The emission of noise in air which disturbs natural processes or causes harms to human
beings is called as noise pollution.
Pressure horns of cars and other vehicles, noise produced through loud speakers during social
and religious functions, noise produced by heavy machines, irresponsible practice of hearing high
pitched sound of music systems, televisions etc. are some remarkable sources of noise pollution.
The popular unit of sound measurement is decibel (db). This unit has been named after Sir
Alfred Bell. The human ear is sensitive to sound from 0 to 180 db. However, the sound beyond 140
db is harmful.
enviro_Facts : 07
Maximum acceptable levels of sound inside buildings
Place Sound Level (db)
Hospitals 40 – 50
Schools 45 – 50
Libraries 40 – 45
Radio, TV Studios 25 – 30
Residential Buildings 45 – 55
Restaurants 40 – 55
Factories 60 – 65
Music Rooms 30 - 35
7.7. MARINE POLLUTION: OIL SPILLS
The Marine Pollution, as defined by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC) for
United  Nations  Educational  and  Scientific  Commission,  the  introduction  by  man,  directly  or
indirectly, of substances into the marine environment, resulting in such deleterious effects as harm to
living resources, hazards to human health, or hindrance to marine activities and reduction of amenities
is called as marine pollution.
7.7.1. Sources of Marine Pollution
Sources of Marine Pollution are –
1. Marine Commerce,
2. Industrial Effluents joining seas and oceans,3. Dumping of radio active substances into sea water,
4. Sewage brought to the sea by rivers,
5. Offshore oil rigs,
6. Recreational activities,
7. Agricultural pollutants brought to the sea by rivers.
7.7.2. Major Pollutants causing Marine Pollution
The pollutants associated with marine environment are pathogens, sediments, solid wastes, heat,
brine, toxic organic substances, petroleum, nutrients, radio active materials, acids and bases etc.
7.7.3. The Oil Spills
The layer of oil spread on the surface of the sea water, is called as oil spills. The oil on the
surface of the sea water gets spread due to following reasons –
1. Damage caused to oil tankers by accidents,
2. Natural seepage of water,
3. Offshore production losses associated with oil refineries (Fig. 7.7),
4. Disposal of used automobile lubricants etc. into sea water.
The oil spread on the sea water acts as an insulating layer between air and water. Due to this,
the oxygen of the atmosphere can not mix with water. The deficiency of dissolved oxygen in water
kills varieties of sea animals. The sea birds that catch fish by dipping into sea water become unable
to fly due to oiling of their wings.
Fig. 7.7. An Oil Refinery.
It is due to frequent oil spills that sea otters, many sea birds, whales and many other species ofthe marine environment have become endangered. The oil spill damages fisheries and Mari culture,
and causes serious economic losses to the local public and the governments.
The pollution in coastal bays, estuaries and wetlands threaten many species of fish inhabiting
these places. 260,000 barrels of oil was spilled from oil tanker Exxon Valdez into Alaska’s Prince
William Sound in 1989. About 4.4 billion liters (0.2 billion gallons) of oil was spilled in about 8,539
oil spills in 1999, in and around the waters of the United States.
7
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
Most often, we remain unable to detect pollution in our natural resources, merely by visual observation. Under such a condition,
we go for a laboratory test. One of the quickest and effective ways of judging pollution through visual observation is the observation
and knowledge of bio- indicators.
Living organisms that show the status of environmental quality through their sensitivity, are called as bio-
indicators. The bio- indicators are very useful in finding out pollution because they help in identification of the type of pollution.
Let us take a few examples-
(i) The presence of Coliform baceria indicates water pollution due to faecal matter.
(ii) Movement of Catla and Labeo (Rohu) fish species away from their habitat shows pollution of water due to industrial
waste. Similarly, the death of Amphibians and fish in pond water shows Eutrophication.
(iii) Abundance of diatoms and Eichhornia in water indicate pollution due to mixing of sewage in water.
(iv) Growth of some algal species like Chara shows water pollution by organic and industrial wastes.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
HYDROCARBONS : Compounds of hydrogen and carbon are called as hydrocarbons. Examples-
Methane (CH4), Ethane etc. Petroleum is a mixture of many hydrocarbons.
PARTICULATES : Liquid droplets or tiny solid particles suspended in air including nitrogen oxides,
sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide etc.
RADIATION POLLUTION : Contamination of environment due to mixing of various radiations emitted
from  radioactive  substances  contaminating  natural  resources  is  called  as
radiation pollution.
DECIBEL : Unit  used  to  compare  sound  intensities  and  subsequently  electrical  or
electronic power outputs.
OIL SPILLS : Leakage of petroleum from an oil tanker or other vessel is called oil spills.
AUTOMOBILE : Self-propelled vehicle used primarily on public roads but adaptable to other
surfaces.
VOLATILE  ORGANIC : Organic  Chemicals,  with  the  tendency  to  become  vapour  at  specified
CHEMICALS conditions of temperature and pressure.
SEDIMENTS : Rich deposition of fine grained material on river and sea bed.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Mention any two sources of industrial pollution.
2. Mention any two sources of air pollution.
(ICSE 2005, 2007)
3. Name any one disease caused due to inhalation of tobacco smoke.4. Name any two diseases caused by soil pollution.
5. What is half life period?
6. What is a decibel?
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(2 marks each)
1. What is pollution?
2. Name pollutants two each for air and water pollution.
3. Name any two sources of soil pollutions
(ICSE 2005)
4. State any two consequences of air pollution.
5. What is water pollution?
6. What do you know about radiation pollution?
7. What is noise pollution?
8. “Oil spills have an adverse impact on marine life” - Explains
(ICSE 2008)
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 marks each)
1. What is air pollution? Mention four sources of Air Pollution.
(ICSE 2006)
2. What is oil spill? Mention principal causes and effects of oil spills.
3. Vehicular Pollution in cities has become a major nuisance. Suggest six measures to reduce this problem.
(ICSE 2008)
4. What is air Pollution? Mention four sources of air pollution.
(ICSE 2006)
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. A condition which is characterized by mixing of undesirable and harmful substances in our natural resources is called as –
(a) acid rain
(b) ozone layer depletion
(c) pollution
(d) eutrophication
2. A pollutant gas which can be blamed for bleaching of plant leaves and softening of fruits is –
(a) ammonia
(b) sulphur dioxide
(c) carbon dioxide
(d) methane
3. Sources of air pollution like petrochemicals and oil refineries are –
(a) agricultural sources
(b) industrial sources
(c) municipal sources
(d) shipping sources
4. The spawning of fish species like Salmon and Trout is badly affected by –
(a) deposit of sediments on gravel beds
(b) methane gas in the water
(c) carbon dioxide in water
(d) contamination of water with sewage
5. The offshore oil rigs cause –
(a) air pollution
(b) marine pollution
(c) eutrophication
(d) global warmingB. Fill in the Blanks
1. Hydrogen fluoride naturally comes out into the air from …………… .
2. ……………is the principal constituent of the natural gas.
3. The effluent released from slaughter houses, toilets and leather industries contain numerous …………… .
4. …………… gradually converts lakes and ponds into marshes and swamps.
5. Synthetic fertilizers used in agriculture alter the quality of …………… adversely.
C. True / False
Write T against the statement which is True and F against the statement which is False –
1. Radiation pollution may be both the natural and man made.
2. Faulty irrigation facilities may cause water logging.
3. Chemical compounds made of carbon and hydrogen are called as hydrocarbons.
4. The microbial activities on sewage produce ozone gas.
5. A number of toxic wastes seep into the ground to cause the acid rain.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Petroleum refineries and pulp and paper mills 2. Natural Sources & Anthropogenic Sources3. emphysema, 4. anthrax,
typhoid, 5. The time taken by a radioactive substance to get reduced up to the half of its initial value is called as half life
period. 6. Unit used to compare sound intensities and subsequently electrical or electronic power outputs.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1. (c), 2.(a), 3.(b), 4.(a), 5.(b)
B. Fill in the Blanks
1. Volcanoes 2. Methane, 3.Bacteria, 4.eutrophication, 5.soil
C.True / False
1. T, 2. F, 3. T, 4. F, 5. F.
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
7.1. OBSERVATION
Concentrate yourself and find out the names of chemical substances used routinely in your home. Make a list of those
chemicals grouping similar substances together. Think, if some or all of them can be replaced by suitable natural alternatives. How
can you promote the use of natural things in your home by replacing artificial things?
7.2. SURVEY
Make a survey of various types of pollutions in an area closer to your school, village or housing colony. Prepare a report of
your survey indicating – types of pollutions, names of principal pollutants (as you observe); possible adverse impacts on the local
environment; control measures that can be taken up; any government or voluntary effort already being taken up – if so, your
suggestions to improve it further and make it more efficient.
7.3. AWARENESS
‘The global consumption of pesticides was 18.17 lakh tones in 1980, which was increased up to 45 lakh tones by 1995. Total
expenses on pesticides in India are worth rupees 555.64 crores. According to reports presented by United States’ National Research
Council and FAO experts, over 650 species of weeds, insects and fungi have become resistant to pesticides and herbicides’. –on the
basis of this information prepare a bulletin board for public awareness about the threats of consumption of synthetic pesticides.

CHAPTER8
Effects and Abatement
of Pollution
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction
u Effects of Pollution
u Effects of Pollution on Environment
u Effects of Pollution on Human Health
u Effects of Pollution on Other Organisms
u Abatement of Pollution
u Principles and Guidelines for the Abatement of Pollution
u Practices of Abatement of Pollution
8.1. INTRODUCTIONIn the previous chapter, we studied that several undesirable substances produced mostly due to
human activities, get mixed up with the components of the natural environment and alter their natural
qualities.  Those  substances  are  called  as  Pollutants  and  the  harmful  condition  produced  by  the
pollutants is called as Pollution. Since pollution of any type is harmful to environment, it has to be
prevented and controlled effectively. For this, effective pollution control strategies based on strongly
effective  principles,  are  important  to  be  planned  and  implemented  at  all  levels-  local,  regional,
national and international. Here, in this chapter, we are going to study about various harmful effects of
pollution and their abatements.
8.2. EFFECTS OF POLLUTION
Pollution proves hazards to general health of environment, causes loss to economy; interrupts
bio-geo-chemical  cycles  and  damages  historical  monuments.  Now,  let  us  discuss  the  effects  of
pollution on environment in general and after that, on the health of human beings, animals, plants and
microorganisms in particular.
8.2.1. Effects of Pollution on Environment
Some  of  the  major  problems  created  by  pollution  in  different  components  of  the  global
environment are being mentioned below.
(i) Problems  in  the  Atmosphere:  Ozone  Layer  Depletion,  Global  warming  (green  house
effect or climate change) and Acid Rain.
(ii) Problems in Hydrosphere: Eutrophication, Siltation of Rivers and Bleaching of Coral
Reefs.
(iii) Problems in Soil: Degradation and Desertification.
A Detailed study of these environmental problems will be done in the chapter ahead.
The  components  of  environment  are  linked  closely  through  bio-geo-chemical  cycles,  food-
chains  and  transfer  of  energy.  Hence,  pollution  of  anyone  component,  is  sure  to  affect  other
components. That’s why we come across a number of environmental problems being experienced the
world over.
The depletion of ozone layer is the environmental problem caused due to air pollution. The
ozone belt which absorbs UV-radiations is being eaten up by Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), oxides of
nitrogen etc. The UV -radiations coming to the earth is reportedly causing a number of serious
problems in the living world.
Pollutants that go up into the atmosphere are washed down during rains to cause pollutions of
soil  and  water.  We  already  know  that  rain  containing  acids,  is  called  as  Acid  Rain.  Besides
pollutions, it is causing damage to forests, living beings and monuments. Eutrophication is another
environmental  problem  caused  in  water  bodies  due  to  their  enrichment  with  nutrients  including
phosphates and nitrates.Fig. 8.1. Big amount of sand and silt accumulate to fill the belly of a river.
The pollution of air, water and soil has a dramatic effect on different ecosystems like forests,
wetlands,  coral  reefs  etc.  across  the  globe.  The  contamination  by  pollutants  has  far  reaching
consequences which may not be obvious immediately. For example, we can not see a hole in the
ozone layer though scientists can do with the aid of advanced technologies. Further, scientists too can
only speculate on different potential impacts of depletion of ozone layer.
The degradation of soil and desertification are the problems associated with soil pollution and
improper  practices  of  waste  disposal.  The  unhealthy  practices  of  soil  management  have  caused
serious degradation of soil quality, soil pollution and enhanced soil erosion. Big amounts of sand and
silt have accumulated to fill the bellies of many rivers. As a result, those rivers have become unable
to carry water to the sea in proper ways. Due to this, floods wash away many lives and take away all
the property with them.
Vast areas of land are being turned into desert due to deforestation, pollution and other human
activities. Thus, whole of the environment is passing through serious stresses basically caused due to
pollutions.
8.2.2. Effects of Pollution on Human Health
As man is the top consumer in most of the food- chains; his health remains especially vulnerable
to the effects of many non- biodegradable pollutants. Let us see how different types of pollutions
affect the human health.
Until and unless a pollutant comes into contact of a person, no injury or harm can occur to him,
no matter how toxic or prevalent it may be in the environment. The contact of a pollutant with a
person is called as exposure. The exposure to a particular pollutant may cause harm or injury to a
person. The harm or injury to a person by exposure to a particular pollutant is called as risk.
Some  risks,  like  risks  due  to  chewing  of  tobacco,  pan  masala  and  gutkha;  and  smoking  of
cigarette  are  willingly  accepted  by  different  people.  These  risks  are  called  as  voluntary  risks.
Though, risks of this type cause serious health problems (like cancer of lungs, mouth and throat) in the
long run, the addicted people go on doing the same, again and again.
However, some pollutants come into contact of a person and cause immediate injury or illnessand the person some times does not know about the exposure to those particular pollutants. Such type
of risks is called as involuntary risk.
A. Effects of Air Pollution on Human Health
Air pollution causes various types of risks to human health, either directly or indirectly. The air
pollution by gases like sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (NOx), causes acid rains which affects all
the components of the environment including human beings. Drinking of water contaminated with
water of acid rain may cause serious neurological disorders in man. Similarly, pollutants emitted
from industries and automobile can cause irreparable damages to human health. A detailed account of
different air pollutants, their sources and impacts on human health is being given in the Table 8.1., for
a ready reference.
Table 8.1. Different Types of Air Pollutants, their sources and impacts on Human HealthB. Effects of Water Pollution on Human Health
Sewage,  infectious  microorganisms,  plant  nutrients,  organic  and  inorganic  substances  and
sediments are principal pollutants that cause water pollution. Out of these, the pollutants harmful to
human health may be categorized as microorganisms and chemical agents.
Infectious microorganisms from sewage, municipal drains, slaughter houses, leather industries,
sanatoria and hospital drains may contaminate our water sources. If potable water is contaminated
with these organisms, the contamination may cause several types of diseases like cholera, typhoid,
gastroenteritis, diarrhoea, dysentery and skin diseases. These diseases frequently endanger the
community health.
Various organic and inorganic  substances  contained  in  polluted  water  cause  serious  health
hazards. Inorganic substances like mercury, sulphur compounds, cyanides, arsenic, lead, fluorides,
nitrates, cadmium etc. join our water bodies from industrial and mine sources. Phenols, detergents,pesticides etc. join our water bodies from domestic and agricultural sources. These pollutants cause
serious health problems by entering into human bodies through food and water.
The  Pollutants  that  enter  into  our  bodies  get  stored  inside  fatty  tissues.  The  continuous
deposition of these harmful pollutants inside human bodies causes biomagnifications resulting into
serious diseases. So is the case of Minamata. What is minamata? Well minamata is the name of a
deadly disease which killed many people living in Minamata bay of Japan in 1956 and afterwards.
A  factory  named  Chisso  Corporation  located  in  Minamata  bay  started  the  production  of
acetaldehyde using mercury as a catalyst. Organic mercury from the factory effluent started to get
accumulated  in  fish  and  shellfish  on  the  city  bay,  which  were  captured  by  local  fishermen  and
distributed in the market. The pollutant also accumulated inside the human body, through food chains
and caused Neurological Syndrome due to mercury poisoning. This deadly disease came to be known
as Minamata disease. Symptoms of the disease include ataxia, numbness in the hands and feet,
general muscle weakness, narrowing of the field of vision and damage to hearing and speech. In
extreme cases, insanity, paralysis, coma and death follow within weeks of the onset of symptoms. A
congenital form of the disease can also affect foetuses in the womb.
Dumps of wastes on open grounds and landfill sites cause pollution of underground water
through leaching. Different types of infectious diseases like cholera, hepatitis, dysentery, diarrhoea,
gastroenteritis etc. are caused in human beings due to contamination of underground water. Ambala,
Ludhiana,  and  Sonepat  industrial  areas  of  Punjab  (India)  were  reported  to  contain  nickel,  iron,
copper, chromium and cyanides in their ground waters. Effluents of metal industries that contaminate
water contain cyanogens, phenol, coke, limestone, alkali, oils, mill scale, fine suspended solids,
chromium, zinc, copper, silver, acids, alkaline cleansers, grease etc. The exposure to different heavy
metals causes toxic effects on human health which is detailed in the following table.
Table 8.2. Pathological effects of water polluted with heavy metalsC. Effects of Soil Pollution on Human Health
Soil  is  polluted  by  dumping  of  wastes  from  domestic,  municipal,  industrial,  commercial,
agricultural, hospital, mineral and construction sources. Toxic and non- biodegradable pollutants from
these sources join food- chains and accumulate in food sources like plants and animals. Pesticides
from agricultural fields enter into plants and get accumulated inside leaves, flowers, stems, roots,
fruits, vegetables and grains. From there they reach to the consumers of the first order i.e. herbivores.
Since, man is the top consumer, most of the non- biodegradable substances like some pesticides get
accumulated in fatty tissues of humans and animals, and cause different types of neurological and
reproductive diseases. In an ecosystem in which a secondary consumer or other is on the top, all the
poison gets accumulated and magnified in his body. It often kills the animal. Allergies of respiratory
tract, nausea, headache, fatigue, dizziness, kidney troubles, cancers, abortions, infant mortality
etc. are some of the symptoms of pesticide poisoning. Many cows die every year due to ingestion
of plastics thrown here and there along with food items.
D. Effects of Radiation Pollution on Human Health
The  radioactive  wastes  are  non-  biodegradable  substances  that  are  mostly  produced  from
laboratories, hospitals and atomic reactors etc. These substances produce highly energized particles
that are very harmful to life. Radioactive emissions often cause seriously dangerous effects in human
body when it is exposed to them. Atomic explosions emit such types of radiations that cause genetic
disorders in men, animals and plants.Radiations cause both somatic and genetic effects on and in human and animal bodies. The
somatic effects include immediate effects like sickness and radiation syndrome as well as delayed
effects  like  carcinogenesis,  abortion,  abnormal  development  of  fetus  and  leukemia.  The  genetic
effects of exposure to radiations on human bodies include chromosomal and genetic mutations that
produce permanent abnormalities in their off springs.
E. Effects of Noise Pollution on Human Health
Besides  causing  discomfort,  noise  can  also  produce  some  serious  physiologicall  effects  on
human  body  like  high  blood  pressure,  irregular  heartbeat,  deafness  and  mental  disorders.  It
interferes  with  general  communications  and  disturbs  in  sleep  and  studies  of  students.  It  is  very
harmful for patients. These are the reasons why blowing of horns by vehicles has been banned in
certain areas like military cantonments, schools and hospitals etc.
8.2.3. Effects of Pollution on Other Organisms
Except  humans,  other  organisms  in  the  environment  include  components  of  the  biotic
environment other than human beings. These are – Animals, Plants and Microorganisms.
A. Effects of Pollution on Animals
Effects of pollution on animals are more or less similar to the effects of pollution on human
beings. However, being top consumers in most of the food chains, human beings are not directly
exposed to pollutants, though they receive accumulated pollutants in greater concentrations and hence
are prone to greater risks as compared to secondary consumers. Effects of pollution on animals are
being summarized below.
1. The pollution of air causes different types of diseases of respiratory systems of animals.
Numerous species of insects and birds are killed due to polluted air.
2. High pitched sound produced due to explosions, fires of bullets etc. kill a large number of
birds and insects. Terrorist camps in forests frighten wild animals during fire testing and explosion
practices.
High  pitched  sound  is  also  produced  by  Supersonic  planes.  The  effect  produced  in  the
atmosphere by the flight of a supersonic plane and heard by our ears is called as “sonic boom”. The
term sonic boom is commonly used to refer to the shocks caused by the supersonic flight of an
aircraft. Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of sound energy, sounding much like an explosion.
Thunder is a type of natural sonic boom, created by the rapid heating and expansion of air in a
lightning discharge.
Some  of  the  physical  factors  causing  or  affecting  the  sonic  boom  are  –  composition  of
atmosphere, temperature variation, humidity, pollution, speed of wind, hard surfaces etc. The over
pressure and impact of sonic boom can be reduced by Tree- belts, grassy fields and lots of foliage.
The  acceptability  of  sonic  booms  has  not  been  assessed  so  far.  Until  some  standards  are
established, it is doubtful that the legislations will be enacted to remove the current prohibition on
supersonic over flight.
3. Millions of fish are killed every year by a wide variety of different pollutants from municipal
and industrial sources.
4. Pesticides applied in agriculture are lethal to numerous types of animals. The application ofCarboryl pesticide kills honey bees that are most important for the pollination of crop plants. This
pesticide is lethal to fish and birds also. The Toxaphene, another pesticide, causes deformities in the
backbones of fishes. The Dichloro Diphenyle Trichloro ethane (DDT) and its breakdown products
tend to retard the reproductive capacities of birds and cause thinning of their egg- cells.
5. In the marine environment, some ornithologists estimate that up to 250,000 birds are killed
each year by the effect of oil spilled on the sea- surface.
6. Water and mud contaminated with pesticides kill thousands of swallows due to Pharyngitis
caused when their throats are exposed to pesticides when they go for collecting mud for building up
of their nests.
7. Hundreds of cows die every year due to ingestion of food containing polythene bags thrown
along roadsides and in open grounds.
8. Large numbers of fish are killed in lakes and ponds due to Eutrophication as their waters get
contaminated  by  plant-  nutrients  and  sewage  containing  organic  substances.  The  biological
decomposition of these substances cause scarcity of oxygen which kills fish and amphibians.
B. Effects of Pollution on Plants and Microorganisms
Most types of pollutions are harmful to plants and microorganisms as they are harmful to humans
and animals. Some remarkable examples are being mentioned below.
1.  The  high  concentrations  of  sulphur dioxide  (SO )  produces  necrosis  (death  of  tissues),
2
blotching of broad leaved plants and grasses, brownish discolorations of tips of pine needles,
chlorosis (gradual yellowing) etc.
Fig. 8.2. : A. Blotching of leaves, B. Chlorosis.
2. Hydrogen Sulphide (H S) in air causes leaf lesions or spots, defoliation and reduced growth.
2
3. High concentration (100 to 10,000 part per million) of carbon monoxide causes leaf – drop,
reduction in leaf size, pre- mature ageing, inhibition of cellular respiration etc.
4. Hydrogen fluoride causes burning of tips of leaves, excessive dropping of blooms and fruits,
development of seedless and small fruits etc.
5. Concentration of Hydrogen chloride in air is reported to be responsible for the abexial
glazing  of  leaves  caused  by  collapse  and  plasmolysis  of  epidermal  cells.  Necrotic  lesions  areproduced due to high concentration of this gas in air.
6. Normal to high concentration of hydrocarbons like ethylene causes dry sepal disease of
Orchids, decrease in the amounts of chlorophyll and carotenoids, shortening of internodes and lack of
apical dominance.
7. Ammonia, nitrogen oxides and fluorides cause different types of harmful effects on leaves,
stems  and  fruits  of  plants.  Nitrogen  oxides,  ozone  and  PAN  are  reported  to  disturb  metabolic
processes of plants and cause deaths of tissues.(PAN = Perox Acyle Nitrates)
8. The application of pesticides and fertilizers kills a number of soil organisms, worms and
insects. Many useful bacteria are killed in water due to contamination with pesticides. These bacteria
are useful for decomposition of bio- degradable wastes in water leading to its purification.
9. Dust and silica particles from crushers, lime kilns, slate making units and quarries cause
serious damages to plants. Particles released from cement manufacturing units are responsible for the
premature fall of needles, formation of more stomata, reduction in the weight of seeds and increase in
the number of infertile seeds.
Enviro_Facts : 08
EFFECT OF POLLUTION ON AGRICULTURE
Pollution in environment affects agriculture and horticulture also. The photochemical smog, a type of air pollution produces
serious injuries to plants. It is due to photochemical smog that farmers in some parts of the world do not want to grow leafy plants
like Lettuce, Swiss chord and Orchids. Sulphur dioxide emitted out from copper and lead smelters and hydrogen fluoride produced
due to aluminium reduction and production of fertilizers, have severe effects on vegetables and crop- plants. Plants are more
sensitive to pollutants and even low concentration of pollutants in air and water causes injury and growth retardation in them.
8.3. ABATEMENT OF POLLUTION
Reducing the strength of pollutants so as to make them neutral or less harmful is called
as abatement of pollution. Certain principles, guidelines and control devices are necessary to be
followed and adopted for the abatement of pollutions of all types. These principles and guidelines
together with control measures are being given below.
8.3.1. Principles and Guidelines for the Abatement of Pollution
(a)  Prevention  of  entry  into  the  environment:  According  to  this  principle  pollutants  are
checked  at  the  point  of  their  origin  and  are  not  allowed  to  enter  into  the  environment  by  the
application of specific devices.
(b) Isolation: By isolation, we mean putting out or segregating pollutants at the point of their
release or production. Such isolated pollutants are then dumped at specific locations as per scientific
guidelines adopted from Pollution Control Agencies.
(c)  Conversion  from  highly  toxic  to  lesser  harmful  product:  We  can  not  stop  industrial
processes simply because they cause pollutions. How ever, we can reduce the toxicity or harmfulness
of pollutants by applying bio- chemical technologies. A number of catalysts are introduced to reduce
the toxicity of chemical pollutants produced during industrial processes.
(d) Alternatives: These are safer substances used on the place of substances that cause hazards.
For example bio- pesticides like oil of Neem and garlic extract, are better alternatives to synthetic
chemical pesticides.(e) Destruction: The chemical pollutants which are proved to be toxic and are difficult to be
substituted by safer ones, need to be blocked from further release and then destroyed in a safe and
prescribed scientific manner. Advanced and Environment Friendly Incineration Technology and re-
use for example re use of fly ash for making bricks.
(f)  Awareness:  Matters  pertaining  to  good  citizenship,  environmental  consciousness  and
preventive methods must be explained to the common man, so that he may try to perform his duties
with a high degree of civic sense. These awareness programmes through various media may involve
radios, TVs. seminars, demonstrations, documentary films, pamphlets, display of hoardings, banners
and plays etc.
(g) Public Participation: The word ‘public participation’ means ‘sharing in common’ or ‘doing
together’. In environmental context, it means, the involvement of the local public in solving their local
environmental  problems.  It  does  not  mean,  people  working  under  the  planning  and  decisions  of
government  agencies-  it  is  rather  bottom  up  approach.  With  joint  efforts,  people  identify  their
problems, make plans to resolve them and then to implement them.
(h)  Environmental  Education:  The  environmental  education  has  been  made  a  compulsory
subject for studies at schools, colleges and other institutions. This is the most effective tool for the
abatement of pollution and conservation of environment at different levels.
(i) Self Restraint – A Habit: The greed of luxury and comfort initiates the production of newer
and newer products. More and more products lead to more and more wastes which in turn pollute the
environment more and more. That is why our ancient thinkers and philosophers preached on self
restraint. Likewise, conservation should be made a habit.
(j) Support to Professional Conservation Groups: The state and central governments should
provide subsidies for conservation of environment and pollution control works being carried out by
professional groups.
(k) Legislative and Tax Measures: The existing laws for pollution control should be enforced
properly so as to abate pollution. Industries doing recycling of wastes, regeneration of forest and
production of pollution free technologies should receive tax–concession from the government.
Any  big  problem  cannot  be  solved  without  planning  and  strong  efforts.  The  pollution  of
environment is certainly a big problem. So planning for its abatement is very necessary. Heavy indoor
pollution  is  caused  through  domestic  cooking  in  rural  areas.  This  pollution  is  mainly  caused  by
burning wood and coal; and by using inefficient devices like rural furnaces (Angithis) and Smokey
Chullhas. Use of Smokeless chullhas and burning Bio-gas (or Gobar Gas) can be two ways of
reducing this type of pollution.
8.3.2. Practices of Abatement of Pollution
A. Abatement of Air Pollution
1.  Large  scale  plantation  in  village  commons,  along  rail  tracks  and  along  road-sides  and
compensatory forestation should be done so as to keep up the balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide
gases in the atmosphere.Fig. 8.3. Entry of cattle into water sources, like this pond, causes serious water pollution.
2. Burning of coal, petroleum and its products should be minimized to control emission of gases
like CO , SO , H S and NOx. Ecofriendly alternatives to fossil fuels like biogas, biodiesel, Solar
2 2  2
power etc. should be developed & used to avoid air pollution.
3. Application of aerosol and CFCs should be substituted by the application of safe alternative.
4. Automobiles should be fitted with pollution control devices. Vehicles should be checked
periodically for the control of pollutants.
5. Pollution control plants should be installed compulsorily in all the industries. Some emission
control devices popularly used in industries and elsewhere for the control of particulates are: Fabric
Filters, Wet Scrubbers, Cyclone Collectors, and Electrostatic Precipitators. We have already
studied about these mechanical devices in the previous class.
6. Periodic monitoring and testing of industrial pollution should be insured by the agencies
concerned.
7. People must be checked against burning of wastes including plastics and awareness should be
generated in these regards.
8. A complete ban on shifting cultivation should be imposed in order to check air pollution.
9. Existing laws pertaining to pollution control should be enforced properly.
B. Abatement of Water Pollution
1. Proper drains should be built in human settlements like mohallahs, villages and colonies.
These drains should be routinely cleaned so as to ensure easy flow of water. No solid waste or
plastic should be put into these drains.
2. Dumping of wastes near water sources and entry of cattle in these sources must be stopped to
check the contamination of water.
3. Purification and treatment of industrial effluent must be ensured before allowing it to join
local drains, water bodies, rivers or sea.
4. Disposal of dead bodies into waters of different rivers, or burning of dead bodies on the
banks  of  rivers  must  be  banned  and  continuous  monitoring  of  such  cases  should  be  ensured  by
concerned government bodies or agencies.
5. Industries should not be established near human habitations, parks, hospitals, sanitaria etc.
6. Reduction in the input of wastes, proper disposal of wastes, checking organic substances
against joining water bodies, treatment of sewage etc. practices must be taken care of at all levels.We  have  already  studied  about  the  method  of  treatment  of  waste  water.  Water  is  a  scarce
resource. Hence, attempts should be made to re- use water after proper treatment and purification.
The waste water is treated by adopting following methods –
(a) Collection and sedimentation of waste water,
(b) Biological decomposition of sediments,
(c) Decantation and filtration,
(d) Chemical oxidation, chlorination and / or ozonization.
GANGA ACTION PLAN
A comprehensive multicrore plan for cleaning Ganga, the Sacred River of India, was launched
in 1986 by the Government of India. It was named as the Ganga Action Plan or GAP in abbreviated
form. At the time of launching, the main objective of GAP was to improve the water quality of Ganga
to acceptable standards by preventing the pollution load reaching the river. However, as decided in a
meeting  of  the  Monitoring  Committee  in  June,  1987  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Prof.  M.  G.  K.
Menon, then Member, Planning Commission, the objective of GAP was recast as restoring the river
water quality to the ‘Bathing Class’ standard which is as follows –
Table 8.3.
Parameter Quantity
Bio-Chemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 3 mg/l maximum
Total Coliform 5 mg/l minimum
Dissolved Oxygen (DO) 10,000 per 100 ml
Faecal Coliform 25,00 per 100 ml
The Principal aims of the GAP are –
1. Improving the quality of the river-water by intercepting, diverting, and treating adequately.
2. Installing sewage treatment plants at its banks and releasing the water after proper treatment
by the plants.
3. Encouraging pollution control, and waste management activities in cities located on its banks.
4. Installing electric crematoria and checking people against disposing dead bodies and their
parts in the river.
5. Developing river fronts and making provisions of low cost sanitation facilities.
C. Abatement of Soil Pollution
Soil is polluted through dumping of wastes, application of chemical fertilizers and synthetic
pesticides and salinization through water logging. Following efforts must be made to abate soil
pollution –
1. Solid wastes should be properly disposed by composting, land filling, thermal processes; and
by re- cycling and re- use.
Composting is the process of degrading decomposable solid waste in a properly dug pit, called
as compost pit. Composting process involves both the aerobic and anaerobic processes. In aerobic
composting the biodegradable wastes are filled in the compost pit which is left open from one or
more sides. On the other hand, in anaerobic composting the biodegradable wastes are allowed to
degrade in sealed compost pits. The compost prepared through any one of these processes is very
good manure for crops. It provides nutrients to the soil as well as improves its texture also.Land filling is just the process of dumping wastes or other substances in low land areas and
covering the same with soil. This is the age old practice of leveling low areas. But, in modern times
waste materials are buried under soil after compacting them properly in a scientific manner. The
provision of release of gases from the decomposing materials of the land fill is also made adequately.
This type of advanced land filling is called as sanitary land filling.
In thermal process, the dried solid waste is safely burnt in closed compartments with proper
provision of treatment of harmful gases, and utilization of heat energy evolved during the process. It is
called as INCINERATION. Environmentalists do not favour this process of solid waste treatment in
view of fear of air pollution, rather they advocate for Re-cycling and Re-use for the disposal of non-
biodegradable substances.
In general terms, Re-cycling is the process of making useful things from discarded things. This
style of waste management is very good as it reduces the pollution load of the environment. Re- use
is simply the practice of using already used things after cleaning, disinfecting and repairing, what
ever is important. Giving away old clothes and blankets to needy and poor instead of discarding away
is considered to be a good practice of re-use.
2. Composts, green manure, wormy compost or natural manure should be added to soil so as to
improve its fertility. The application of chemical fertilizers should be restricted for unavoidable
conditions through proper assessment of the loss of nutrients in the soil.
Biodegradable solid waste, dung etc. can be used to prepare Biogas. Biogas is an ideal fuel
with methane as its principal components. It is used for cooking and lighting houses.
3. The application of synthetic chemical pesticides should be substituted by the application of
bio-pesticides.
4. Proper drainage of water from crop fields should be ensured to protect fields from water
logging. This condition increases salt content in soil and makes it saline.
D. Abatement of Radiation Pollution
The abatement of radiation pollution demands adequate knowledge, alertness and applications
of advanced technologies. Some general measures to abate and control radiation pollution are being
mentioned below–
1. There should be adequate provisions of proper handling and transport of radio- active wastes.
2. The atomic reactors should be built on the basis of the most advanced technologies so that
their buildings must be absolutely safe for workers and the environment.
3. The transporters and handlers of the radio- active isotopes must be skilled and fully aware of
the proper methods of the work.
4. The radio- active by-products of industries and power plants must be disposed properly.
5. The sampling, analysis and monitoring for radiation pollution should be done on routine basis.
6. All the safety measures and first aid devices as per recommendations of a team of high level
experts must be made available round the clock.
E. Abatement of Noise Pollution
According to a report of the World Health Organization (WHO) – ‘of all environmental
problems, noise is the easiest to control’. But in the practical life it has become hardest to control
because most of the people do not care for the conveniences of other people. Industries manufacture
different types of horns that produce strange and high pitched sound and those horns are being fitted inmotor cycles and cars. It appears that such industries and users of such horns do not care for law or
conveniences of other people.
Following are some of the tips for the Abatement of Noise Pollution-
1. The use of loudspeakers, amplifiers, pressure horns etc. should be restricted.
2.  Strong  awareness  should  be  built  by  people  and  media  about  the  bad  impacts  of  noise
pollution.
3. Every citizen must care for the conveniences of patients, students and other people and should
keep his music systems for the use of his family only. He must produce sounds that are audible to him
only and not to the public outside his home.
4.  Designs  and  fabrication  of  silencers  and  their  use  in  aircraft  engines,  automobiles  and
industrial machines are effective ways of controlling noise pollution through these sources.
5. The government must prescribe noise limits for vehicular traffic, declare silence zones and
have control on sound pollution during public functions, fares, festivals etc.
6. Rows of trees and shrubs should be planted and vegetation buffer zones should be created in
and around residential areas so as to reduce the effects of noise pollution.
7. Every city administration should prescribe a city noise- control code. The creation of noise
should be prohibited. It should be punishable under law, effectively.
8
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
Marine water pollution has become a major point of concern over the world today. Most of the important parts of the world
have organized special pollution control departments to control pollution in the sea and along sea coasts. In India too, every major port
has organized a special anti-pollution cell which is basically concerned with control of oil and other pollutants. There are coast guards
who take care of pollution in the areas that are beyond the control of the port authorities. According to the International Marine
Pollution Convention (MARPOL), ships and ports should have certain facilities for reducing pollution. Antipollution measures have
been introduced in ports for checking sea and coast area pollution.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
ABATEMENT : The practice of making something less harmful is known as abatement.
EXPOSURE : The contact of a pollutant with a person is called as exposure.
RISK : The harm or injury to a person by exposure to a particular pollutant is called
as risk.
NEUROLOGICAL DISORDER : Disorder related to nervous system of an organism is called as neurological
disorder.
LEUKAEMIA : A serious disease in which too many white blood cells are produced causing
gradual weakness and eventual death, is called as leukaemia.
RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCE : A  substance  which  emits  out  specific  radiation  is  called  as  radio  active
substance.
PHARYNGITIS : The infection or trouble of Pharynx (A chamber at the end of vocal chamber
of alimentary canal), is called as Pharyngitis.
FABRICATION : Making or producing: goods, equipments etc. from various different materials
is called as fabrication.
THERMAL POLLUTION : Harmful increase in water temperature in streams, rivers, lakes, oceans or
coastal ocean water caused by either dumping hot water from factories and
power plants or removing trees and vegetation that shade streams, permitting
sunlight  to  raise  the  temperature  of  these  waters  is  called  as  ThermalPollution.
PATHOLOGICAL : Caused by or connected with disease or illness.
SOMATIC EFFECTS : Effects pertaining to physical make up of an organism.
HEAVY METALS : Elements with high relative density ( 5 or more), often toxic to Humans and
animals are called as heavy metals.
Examples: lead, mercury, copper and cadmium etc.
CARCINOGENIC : Any thing likely to cause cancer is called as carcinogenic.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Mention any two global problems caused due to air pollution.
2. Name any three natural phenomena that affect environment adversely.
3. A gaseous pollutant in air causes leaf lesions, defoliation and reduced growth in plants on exposure in high concentration. Name
the pollutant.
4. What is the effect of water logging on soil?
5. Name any two -
(a) Green House gases
(ICSE 2006)
(b) Pollutants causing acid rain
(c) Water borne diseases
6. Which is main constituent of Biogas?
(ICSE 2007)
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(2 marks each)
1. Distinguish between pollution and pollutant.
2. ‘The pollution of anyone component of environment is sure to affect other components’ – How?
3. Mention any two effects of Air Pollution on each of the following –
(a) Human Health
(b) Global Environment
4. Name any two occupational Diseases. Explain reason of each one of these diseases.
5. What is the effect of Noise Pollution on Human Health?
6. What are the principles and guidelines for the abatement of pollution?
7. Name any two devices that are used for the abatement of air pollution.
(ICSE 2006)
8. State any two ecofriendly alternatives to fossil fuels.
(ICSE 2010)
9. Mention two methods of disposing solid waste.
(ICSE 2007)
10. Mention two objectives of Ganga Action Plan.
11. Name the chemical compound that caused Mina-mata disease. which country was confronted by it?
(ICSE 2006)
12. What is the radiation pollution? How can it be abated?
13. State any two ways of reducing pollution from domestic cooking in rural areas.
(ICSE 2010)
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 marks each)
1. What are the effects of pollution on human health?
2. What are the effects of pollution on
(a) Plants
(b) Animals
3. Describe the methods of the abatement of –
(a) Air Pollution(b) Water Pollution
(c) Soil Pollution
(d) Noise Pollution
(e) Radiation Pollution
4. What are physiological effects of noise pollution?
(ICSE 2008)
5. Write a note on Land filling.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. Melting of glaciers is associated with-
(a) global warming
(b) ozone depletion
(c) acid rain
(d) desertification
2. Unhealthy practices of soil management have enhanced-
(a) soil erosion
(b) afforestation
(c) soil pollution
(d) both (a) and (c)
3. A gas causing acid rain is-
(a) nitrogen oxides
(b) ozone
(c) methane
(d) bio- gas
4. Vehicular Noise pollution is controlled by-
(a) removing horns
(b) using air conditioners inside vehicles
(c) pressure horns
(d) silencers
5. Ozone is depleted by-
(a) chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)
(b) pesticides
(c) oxygen
(d) sulphuric Acid
B. Fill in the blanks
1. The application of ……………………… kills honey bees that are most important for the pollination of crop plants.
2. ………………… is caused in water bodies due to their enrichment with nutrients including phosphates and nitrates .
3. …………………causes burning of tips of leaves, excessive dropping of blooms and fruits, development of seedless and small
fruits etc.
4. The radioactive wastes are ………………… substances.
5. Fabric filters, wet scrubbers and electrostatic precipitators are mechanical devices to control …emissions.
C. True / False
Write T against the statement which is True and F against the statement which is False.
1. The components of nature tend to recover general natural losses on their own.
2. The depletion of the ozone layer is causing the melting of glaciers.
3. The harm or injury to a person by exposure to a particular pollutant is called as cancer.
4. The nitrogen oxides contribute to acid rain.
5. The risk associated with smoking of cigarette by a person is called as involuntary risk.
6. The exposure of seeds to ammonia causes reduction in the rate of their germination.
7. The exposure of sulphur dioxide to a person may cause a disease of respiratory tract.
8. The Black Lung disease is also called as Silicosis.
ANSWERSI. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1.  Global  Warming,  Ozone  Layer  Depletion.  2.  Change  in  Atmospheric  Temperature,  Climatic  Variation  3.Hydrogen
Sulphide, 4. Salinization, 5. (a)Carbon dioxide and Methane, (b) Nitrogen Oxides and Sulphur Dioxide, (c) Cholera and
Diarrhoea 6. Methane
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1.(a), 2.(c), 3.(a), 4. (d), 5.(a)
B. Fill in the blanks
1. Carboryl pesticide, 2. Eutrophication, 3. Hydrogen fluoride, 4. Non- biodegradable, 5. Particulate.
C. True / False
1. T, 2. F, 3. F, 4. T, 5. F, 6. T, 7. T, 8. T.
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
8.1. OBSERVATION
Observe cases of voluntary and involuntary types of excess risk in your society continuously for a week. Prepare a report of
your observation.
8.2. PROJECT WORK
Prepare a Project on the Environmental Management of your school campus. Observe what activities of students affect it
adversely. Add your suggestions.
8.3. SURVEY
Identify cases of Air Pollution and Water Pollution in your area. Make an assessment of the impacts of these pollutions on the
community health. Prepare a report indicating all the sources of pollution, and send it to the Member Secretary, Pollution Control
Board of your State.3
ISSUES OF
ENVIRONMENT
9. Decline in Productivity and Effects on Economy
10. Resettlement and Rehabilitation of People
11. Energy Crisis-Urban and Rural Sectors
12. Global Issues of Environment
13. Disasters: Types, Management and Mitigation

CHAPTER9
Decline in
Productivity and Effects on
Economy
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction
u Productivity : What does it mean?
u Forest Productivity
u Decline in Forest Productivity and Effects on Economy
u Causes of Decline in Forest Productivity
u Efforts to Recover the Loss of Forest Productivity and to Improve the Economy
u Agricultural Productivity
u Decline in Agricultural Productivityu Causes of Decline in Agricultural Productivity
u Effects of Decline in Agricultural Productivity
u Efforts to Recover the Loss of Agricultural Productivity and to Improve the Economy
u Marine Productivity
u Decline in Marine Productivity and Effects on Economy
u Causes of Decline in Marine Productivity
u Efforts to Recover the Loss to Marine Productivity.
9.1. INTRODUCTION
Natural Resources – both Physical and Biological, make up the economic strength of a nation.
But human beings are destroying these resources without any care and responsibility. It has been
during the last few decades that peoples and their governments started thinking about the loss of
natural resources in economic terms. In fact, all the forests, crops, marine and all the other resources
form economic  backbone  of  our  country.  These  resources  supply  raw  materials  to  many  of  our
important industries and build up our economic strength. But, the utilization of these resources in most
of the cases is being done on an unsustainable basis. As such, our resource bases are being depleted
causing serious losses to their productivities. This condition may invite serious crises in the natural
environment and the depleting resource bases may prove challenges to life on this planet. In this
chapter, we are going to study about the loss of the productivity of our forests, agricultural and marine
ecosystems and its effects on economy.
9.2. PRODUCTIVITY: WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
In Economics, the productivity is the rate at which goods or commodities are produced. But in
the context of environment, the rate of production or the amount of organic matter accumulated in
the living systems in the unit period of time is called as productivity. In more simple terms, the
production of biomass per unit area in a unit period of time in an ecosystem (forest, agriculture or
marine ecosystem etc.) is called as productivity of that ecosystem.
The productivity of an ecosystem has been classified as: Primary Productivity, Secondary
Productivity and Net Productivity.
In fact, it is through the biological process that the living organisms (say- green plants, other
autotrophs and chemosynthetic bacteria) synthesize energy–rich organic materials in the environment
–  through  photosynthesis.  It  is  called  as  Primary  Production.  The  rate  at  which  the  energy  is
converted by photosynthesis and chemosynthetic autotrophs to organic substances is called as
Primary Productivity. The Primary Productivity has been classified into: Gross Primary productivity
and Net Primary Productivity.
The  total  (gross)  photosynthesis  or  total  assimilation  is  called  as  Gross  Primary
Productivity. The rate of storage of organic matter in plant tissues in excess of respiratory
utilization by plants during the period of measurement is called as Net Primary Productivity.
Some of the primary production is consumed by herbivores and is transformed into other forms. The
rate  of  storage  of  energy  at  consumer  level  or  the  rate,  at  which  food  is  assimilated  by
consumers, is called as secondary productivity.
A certain amount of organic material is used to sustain the lives of producers. What ever remains
after these processes is called as Net Production. The growth and productivity of an ecosystemdepends upon certain factors like soil fertility, consumption by herbivores, climatic fluctuations and
human interferences.
9.3. FOREST PRODUCTIVITY
The total amount of organic matter produced per unit area of forest per unit time is called
as  the  forest  productivity.  In  a  stable  forest  ecosystem  there  is  neither  an  accumulation  nor  a
diminution in the total amount of organic matter present. The productivity of a forest is judged in
terms of various types of economically valuable products derived from it.
enviro_Facts : 9.1.
Forests are sources of various economically valued products. They provide important services to environment and human
beings. Some most important examples are being mentioned here.
1. Forests provide timber and significant revenue is derived from harvesting and processing of timber by private and
government sectors.
2. Forests provide over 13 million tonnes of fuel wood per year in India alone.
3. Forests provide medicines, gums, resins, alkaloids leaves worth crores of rupees every year.
Fig. 9.1. Timber : A Forest Product.
4. Forests provide other commodities of great economic value like lakh and silk.
5. Forests provide shelter to numerous species of birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, molluscs, insects and rodents etc.
6. Forests provide job opportunities for about 50 million people in the developing countries.
7. According to recent calculations natural forests store about 430 billion metric tonnes of carbon, which is more than the
carbon released by the burning of fossil fuels over the next 70 years or so.
8. Reports suggest that one hectare of mangrove forest offers more than US $ 1,000 to a country.
9.3.1. Decline in Forest Productivity and Effects on Economy
The increasing human population has put tremendous pressure on land for housing, agriculture,
farming, pasture development, grazing by cattle and the production of various types of consumergoods through industrialization. For this land has to be acquired by claiming wetlands, mangroves and
by large scale deforestation. In Indonesia; about 68000 sq km of land have been allocated for new
plantations  for  the  production  of  palm  oil.  Here  are  some  more  examples  of  decline  in  forest
productivity due to different reasons.
1. The total forest area in the world has been estimated to be around 3,869 million hectares. Out
of this area about 95% is covered with natural forest and 5% is covered with regenerated forest. The
natural forests are being lost or being converted to other uses of land at an alarming rates. For
example, about 16.1 million hectares of natural forests were lost during 1990 – 2000. The annual
forest loss at the Pan-tropical level has been estimated to be 9.2 million hectares.
Fig. 9.2. Great amount of money is spent each year on rescue and relief of people endangered by floods.
2. According to the Food and Agricultural Organisation, the global loss of forests during the
period 1990–2000 has been around 9.4 million hectares per year.
3. The destruction of forests and grasslands is causing extinction of more than 12% of bird
species, 25% of mammal species and about 33% of amphibian species.
4. In spite of increasing awareness about deforestation on global scale during recent years, the
total area under forests is declining continuously.
5. About 850 million hectares of forest land is degraded in Asia and Pacific accounting for 24%
of  the  region’s  land.  It  was  during  1981  –  1990  that  deforestation  in  Asia  and  Pacific  regions
increased from 3.9 million hectares per year against 3.9 million hectares per year during 1981 –
1990. On the global level, the annual forest loss runs at about 12 million hectares per year, mostly in
developing countries.
6. The period between 1976–1990, has been the period of Plantation Forestry. During this
period,  dense  forest  cover  was  destroyed  from  46  to  36  million  hectares  which  reduced  the
livelihood options for forest dependent poor people especially tribal people.
The land denuded of forests, is taken away with the rain water to cause the siltation of rivers
which finally leads to frequent floods. Floods claim large number of lives of humans and cattle every
year. Great properties are ruined by devastating floods and great amounts of money are spent on
rescue and rehabilitation of people. Thus, the decline in the forest productivity causes great losses to
economy.9.3.2. Causes of Decline in Forest Productivity
The world average of per person forest cover is estimated to be one hectare where as in India; it
is just 0.10 hectare or so. Forests of India are being destroyed at the rate of 12.5 million hectares per
year. If this trend continues, a day may come when we may have to face acute environmental crises on
all fronts. We have already studied about all possible reasons of the depletion of the forest cover, and
that  need  not  be  repeated  here  in  detail.  However  to  recall,  some  important  reasons  behind  the
depletion of the forest cover are – the explosion of human population, overgrazing by cattle like
sheep and goats, mining activities and heavy industrialisation, deforestation along hill slopes and
the construction of roads along hillsides. Since forests contribute a lot to the national and local
economy up to remarkable extent, loss of forest economy is a serious loss to the national economy.
9.3.3. Efforts to Recover the Loss of Forest Productivity and to Improve the Economy
There is an increasing awareness regarding the impact of the loss of the Forest Productivity on
economy across the world. People are now relying on plantation for the production of industrial
wood. Nearly half of the plantation in the world is not more than 15 years old. Asia has become the
world leader in terms of plantation as more than 62% of all the forest plantation done by the year
2000 across the globe, has been done in this region alone. Ideally, about 83% of the land area should
be under forest, but due to growing demand for agricultural land and rapid urbanization, both the area
under  forest  and  productivitiy  of  forests  have  decreased  considerably.  This  is  the  reason  why
Governments and people are putting their efforts for raising Forests Productivity.
Some very important signs of human efforts for raising forest productivity are –
1. The Private Sector Investment in plantation in developing countries has gone up during
recent years.
2. The foreign investment in plantation sector has increased considerably.
3. Communities and small landowners are producing trees for selling to private companies
and generating income though it is doing a very little good to environment.
4. The timber harvesting has been banned by many countries in order to conserve their forest
resources or to check the economic losses due to natural calamities like land slides or
floods.
5. Some countries have put restrictions on the export of wood so as to address the problems
of national environment and markets.
6. The World  Trade  Organisation  (WTO)  Committee  on  trade  and  environment  and  the
Intergovernmental Forum on Forests are considering issues pertaining forest trade.
EFFECTS OF DECLINE IN FORESTS PRODUCTIVITY
The decline in Forest Productivity has serious effects on the whole environment. It reduces
the income of those who depend on forests, and makes their lives miserable. As forests act as sinks
of carbon dioxide, a gas contributing into global warming, decline in forest productivity raises the
intensity of this global terror. Roots of forest trees hold soil water and act as sponges, but in case
of  their  depletion,  manifold  effects  are  observed-  for  example-  reduction  in  humus  content,  soil
moisture, and general fertility of the soil. As the national economy too, has to depend heavily on the
forest productivity, loss in forest productivity is sure to put down the national economy. In absence of
trees soil becomes prone to serious erosions leading to siltation of water bodies- thus causing water
crisis and flash floods. The soil under these conditions remains prone to desertification.9.4. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY
The rate of production of agricultural goods in a unit period of time is called as Agricultural
Productivity.
In  more  simple  terms,  the  production  of  flowers,  fruits,  vegetables,  legumes,  nuts,  millets,
tubers, corms, roots, leaves, herbs and other agricultural products in unit period of time(say one
season or one year), is called as Agricultural Productivity.
Food is the most important agricultural product. But many other products like natural fibres,
flowers, forage (like alfalfa, clover grasses etc.), and many other products are also obtained from
agriculture. About 85 major crops are grown in the world. Some important crops are: cereal grains,
(e.g.  barley,  maize,  oat  etc.  millets,  rye,  sorghum  and  wheat),  roots(sweet  potato,  cassava  etc.),
pulses, oil bearing crops, nuts, sugar bearing crops, cocoa beans, coffee, tea etc. Cotton, flex, hemp,
jute, sisal etc. produce plant fibres. Some farms provide raw materials for industry: like fibre, natural
rubber, castor oil, linseed oil, tobacco etc. These agricultural products support greater part of the
world  economy.  But  human  activities  leading  to  soil  degradation,  pollution,  encroachment  on
agricultural  lands,  wetlands,  mangroves  etc.  have  posed  seriously  bad  impacts  on  agricultural
production and economics of the world.
Today, a variety of crops are grown through mixed farming methods. These crops are produced
for commercial purposes. Farmers in Europe and Mid- Western United States do mixed farming for
great productivity. This type of farming is less risky than specialized farming. Thus market price for a
particular product may decline sharply. On a mixed farm, losses from one product may often be
covered by profits from the other product.
9.4.1. Decline in Agricultural Productivity
Two –third of the world’s agricultural land has been degraded. About 1.2 billion poorest people
of the world inhabit those lands. They work hard. Still the agricultural productivity is very low in
those areas.
The  declining  land  productivity  in  many  cases  has  forced  people  to  encroach  on  forests,
grasslands and wetlands. These conditions cause further degradation of environment and decline in
agricultural productivity.
Climatic  variations  and  human  activities  are  causing  droughts,  land  degradation  and
desertification. As per reports of United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD)
- 2000a, about 3600 million hectare or 70% of the world’s dry land are degraded. Africa, Asia and
small island states are facing serious economic losses due to land degradation caused by declining
productivity of land due to climate change.
Agricultural productivity declines considerably due to floods and the climatic change. The
degradation of land, Siltation of rivers, pollution of soil from acid rains and industrial wastes are
some of the issues that are associated with urbanisation and industrialization that are strong causes of
land degradation and decline in agricultural productivity. As per estimates of Food and Agricultural
Organisation (FAO) - 1996, about 1.96 million hectare of land has been degraded by industry and
urbanisation. Urbanisation has also caused damages to urban agriculture on public and private lands.
For example about 30% of the Russian Federation’s food is produced on 3 per cent of land in sub
urban areas. The United States lost 400 000 hectare of farm land and China has lost up to 5 million
hectares  of  farm  land  due  to  urbanisation.  All  these  conditions  have  put  tremendous  impact  onagriculture and decline in economy.
Most of the biodiversity loss has occurred during 20th century. According to FAO’s reports, out
of traditionally cultivated 7000 species for food, only 120 are being cultivated today. All these
declines  in  agricultural  productivity  reflect  human  activities  pertaining  to  carelessness  and
exploitation.
9.4.2. Causes of Decline in Agricultural Productivity
Following are the causes of the decline in Agricultural Productivity –
1. With the explosion in human population the agricultural land has gradually been converted
into residential and industrial areas.
2. The need of production of more and more food forced people to go for commercial and
extensive  agriculture.  These  practices  caused  serious  depletion  of  nutrients  causing  loss  in  the
agricultural productivity.
3. The agricultural production was to be boosted up by the application of synthetic chemical
fertilizers and crops were protected from pests and diseases by the applications of pesticides and
fungicides.  All  these  synthetic  chemicals  caused  permanent  losses  in  the  further  productivity  of
agriculture by causing degradation of lands.
4. Vast areas of productive land are destroyed by heavy mining and quarrying.
5. Frequent floods due to siltation of rivers caused by soil erosion often leads to damage of the
top  soil  at  certain  places  causing  serious  soil  degradation  leading  further  to  serious  losses  of
agricultural productivity.
6. Irratic rainfall induced by human activities causes frequent drought conditions that further
leads to causing crop failures and damages to the agricultural productivity.
7. The current practice of planting commercial varieties of trees on agricultural land instead of
growing food crops is leading to serious losses to agricultural productivity.
9.4.3. Effects of Decline in Agricultural Productivity
1. The decline in Agricultural Productivity is causing hunger in major parts of the world.
The World Food Summit- 1998 set the goal of reducing the number of hungry people up to half. In
spite of great improvements in the food production about half million people are still starving across
the world. Thus, it has become evident that the Agricultural Productivity has become a driving force
for economic and social developments. According to the International Atomic Agency- ‘When
agriculture fails sources of income are lost. Social ties are disrupted and as a result, societies
become more mobile.’
2.  The  decline  in  the  productivity  of  the  land  under  poor  farmers  created  regional
disparities.  The  Green Revolution  was  launched  to  enhance  food  production  but  only  the  rich
farmers could derive benefits out of it. The poor could not afford heavy prices of synthetic fertilizers
and pesticides. Thus they remained hungry and economically backward in comparison to the rich. On
the other hand, application of synthetic fertilizers and poisonous pesticides degraded the productivity
of soil seriously. Thus the land even under the rich farmers no longer remained productive. These
conditions  are  causing  seriously  bad  impacts  on  the  agricultural  production  during  current  times
leading to a setback to the national economy.
3. The agricultural growth created a gap between the rich and the poor states in the post green
revolution period after 1980 – 1981.4. The agriculture growth slowed by 2 per cent a year in the 9th Five Year Plan and the overall
income growth was only 5.5 per cent where as the target was 8 per cent.
5. The decline in agricultural productivity is causing distress among farmers. They used to take
loans from local money lenders & banks to purchase more & more agrochemicals to boost up the
production. Unfortunately natural calmities ruin the crop & the already degraded land too, could not
support the production. As such farmers fell into a DEBT TRAP and commited suicide when their all
credit sources. The Debt-Trap is a situtation where you add on a new debt to pay an existing debt.
When a farmer is over levereged all the credit sources are exhausted and he arrives at a situation of
DEBT TRAP.
6. Poor maintenance of irrigation system causes loss of water through wastage and seepage.
The scarcity of water affects crop production adversely.
7. Uncontrolled exploitation of ground water has caused serious depletion of water table in
many parts of the country. It is leading to a water crisis and the failure of crops. Even after the
exploitation of all the irrigation potential, up to 60% of India’s cultivable area is assessed to depend
on dry land farming.
AB
Fig. 9.3. Water crisis (A) Children collecting water from a 7 feet deep pit in Rajkot distt. of Gujrat (India) (B) Queue for water.
8. The decline in agricultural productivity has no longer left the agriculture profitable activity
far general farmers. Hence, large scale migration of people  from  rural  areas  towards  cities  is
increasing day by day. It is further causing urban congestions, expansion of slums and encroachments
on government lands.
9.4.4. Efforts to Recover the loss of Agricultural Productivity and to Improve the Economy
The loss of Agricultural Economy can be recovered so as to improve the economy through
following measures :
(i) Improvement of Land by the application of organic fertilizers, by plantation and by control on
overgrazing.
(ii) Lesser dependence on agro-chemicals
(iii) Adoption of methods of crop-rotation, mixed-cropping etc.,
(iv) Adoption of proper methods of irrigation. etc.
(v) Application of Green Manure.
9.5. MARINE PRODUCTIVITY
The Marine Productivity is the production of organic matter fixed or changed into stable
compounds by photosynthetic organisms especially phytoplankton and algae in a unit period of
time.
The oceans are major sources of food, minerals, medicines and numerous types of precious
things. Certain regions of a particular ocean remain zones of a very high productivity where as some
regions are zones of very low productivity. Early records of ocean productivity show that the global
oceanic production of organic matter fixed from nutrients amount to about 130 billion metric tonnes.
Current assessments show that oceans produce 82 million metric tonnes of fish and about 500 000metric  tonnes  of  sea  weeds.  Sea  weeds  provide  us  valuable  food  and  medicines.  Cladophora
fascicularia, Porphyra indica, Codium tomentosum, Hydroclathrus, Chaetomorpha lenoides and
Caulerpa sertulariodes are edible algae. Some algae yield important chemicals like Agar, Algein,
and Carrageenan etc. Some important algal products and their algal sources are being mentioned in
the table below-
Table 9.1. Some important substances derived from Marine Algae.
Algal Product Algal Source
Agar Gracilaria edulis, Sarconema furcellatum, Gellidiella
acerosa, Gracilaria
cortica, G. cylindrica, Gelidium pusilium.
Algein Sargassam duplicatum, S. tenerrium, S. myriocystum,
Turbinaria conoides,
T. ornala, S. wightii.
Carrageenan Hypnea valentiae, Laurencia papillosa, Acanthophora
sp.
Algae in research Doliolaria, Pentacula, Sea cucumber etc. Agar powder
is  used  in  Preparing  potato  dextrose  agar  nutrient
medium for cultural Studies of fungi etc.
AB
C
Fig. 9.4. Some important marine algae : (a) Gracilaria edulis (b) Sargassam duplicatum ( c) Hypnea valentae.
On the basis of the sustainable yield maximum harvestable substances from oceans amount to
100 million metric tonnes per year. 25 per cent of the world’s annual output of oil is produced by
offshore wells. Some of the major minerals obtained from the sea water are magnesium, bromine,
sodium chloride and several metals including about 10 billions of gold. Manganese nodules, found on
the sea floor contain many different minerals in different amounts. About 17% of the petroleum of the
world is derived from offshore oil and gas wells. Sulphur is also found on sea floors.
Ocean is also an alternate source of energy like Thermal Energy obtained through a process
known as Oceanic Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC). The sea water is also being converted for
drinking and related purposes through desalination.
9.5.1. Decline in Marine Productivity and Effects on Economy
Rapid and unwise exploitation of oceanic resources compounded with sea- water pollution,
dumping  of  wastes  and  oil  spills  has  reached  to  a  very  dangerous  level  which  has  caused
considerable decline in the productivity of marine resources which has further led to serious losses to
economies.According to a FAO- report, about 60 to 70 per cent of the world’s fish stock requires urgent
protection. The global sustainable yield of the marine fisheries is just 6296 million tonnes per year.
About one – third of the world’s marine fish production is dumped into the sea mostly in injured or
dead condition.
Sea –water contains a large number of water borne pathogens. Most of the cities in the
developing world do not have efficient sewage treatment facilities and discharge their contaminated
water into the sea. Bathing in such water poses significant risk and causes remarkable economic loss
as mentioned below-
DISEASES RELATED TO MARINE CONTAMINATION
Oceans  and  human  health  are  linked  together  inextricably.  Though  human  beings  are
studying marine environment for centuries it is only recently that they have started to study the impact
of marine contamination on human beings. Since human beings are exposed to marine contamination
through bathing, water sports, and eating sea-food etc., a number of infectious and non-infectious
diseases use to attack them through these routes. Some serious diseases caused in human beings due
to marine contamination are mentioned below –
1. Bathing and swimming at marine coastal beeches cause enteric and respiratory diseases if
sea-water  is  contaminated  by  domestic  waste  water  containing  fecal  matter.  The  World  Health
Organization (WHO) has reported that about 150 million clinical cases of mild gastroenteritis and
upper respiratory diseases are caused every year in human beings by taking baths in the contaminated
marine water.
2.  A  number  of  infectious diseases  attack  to  people  consuming  sea-food.  These  infectious
diseases are Infectious Hepatitis-A (HAV), Reproductive Failure, Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia
etc. There are about 2.5 million clinical cases of Infectious Hepatitis globally with some 25,000
fatalities, and 25,000 cases of long term disabilities from liver damage caused by eating contaminated
shellfish (Food and Agricultural Organization=FAO- 1999).
3. Eating of sea –food contaminated by toxins from algal bloom cause poisoning like Amnesic
Shellfish Poisoning(ASP), Paralytic Shellfish Poisoning (PSP), Ciguatera Poisoning, Neurotoxin
Shellfish Poisoning(NSP), Diarrheic Shellfish Poisoning(DSP) etc. Some of the most reported cases
are Paralysis, Neurological Toxicity, and Human Neurobrucellosis etc.
4. Intestinal Nematodes, reproductive disorders, kidney failure, and Skin Diseases etc.
9.5.2. Causes of Decline in the Marine Productivity
The  marine  productivity  is  declining  due  to  over  exploitation  of  marine  resources  and  the
degradation of the marine environment. Trawler fishing and whaling are two principal exploitation
activities causing decline in the marine productivity. The ocean bottom is scraped by trawler nets that
destroy even coral reefs which are habitats of numerous types of fish and other organisms. The global
fishing industry had total sales of $ 125 billion in 1995. The fishing fleet of the world doubled in size
during 1970 – 1990. By 1998, the fishing capacity of the world industrial fleet rose by 22 per cent
since 1991. All these activities are causing seriously bad impacts on the economies of Nations.
POLLUTION OF MARINE WATER
The pollution of marine water is another strong factor which causes serious decline in marine
productivity leading to heavy losses to economy. The pollution of the Marine Waters is basicallycaused by following agents –
(i) Oil discharge: The discharge from oil exploration units, leakage from oil tankers, oil spills,
and sea accidents etc. cause serious marine pollution. It causes deaths of marine birds and other
animals and other animals as well.
enviro_Facts : 9.2
OFFSHORE DRILLING
The act of extracting underground resources that lie underwater near the shoreline is called as offshore drilling. The term
offshore drilling is used to describe oil extraction off the coasts of continents, though the term can also apply to drilling in lakes and
inland seas.
Fig. 9.5. Offshore oil Platform
th
The first offshore drilling was done at the end of the 19  century in Baku in the Biki- Eibat oil field; and in 1896 at
Summerland field on the coast of California.
The exploration offshore oil and gas is more challenging than land based exploration because –
1. It requires man-power to keep above sea-level;
2. An offshore oil platform is maintained together with shops and sleeping quarters for sheltering human population in the
sea;
3. A helicopter- transport service is to be managed round the clock for transporting man power on shift- basis from the
coastal area to the sea point and back.
Effects of Offshore Drilling on environment –1. There remains continuous risk from oil spills from tankers that transport oil from pipelines; and from leaks and accidents
on the platform;
2. Water, oil and drilling fluid mix with the marine water and cause severe marine pollution. The produced water(the water
which comes out of the earth at the time of drilling) contains heavy metals;
3. Oil platforms present problems in the sea.
(ii)  Algal  bloom  or  the  red  –  tide:  The  algal  bloom  in  sea  water  is  caused  by  nutrition-
enrichment  of  the  sea  water  which  is  also  called  as  Eutrophication.  This  condition  creates  the
formation of toxic algal bloom which causes depletion of oxygen in marine water in a very large area.
This area becomes death zone where no animal can survive.
(iii) Bacteria: The discharge of sewage in sea water generates and brings numerous species of
pathogenic bacteria. These bacteria infect sea animals and stick to sea food causing diseases like
cholera, hepatitis-A etc. in consumers.
(iv)  Acid  Precipitation:  The  precipitation  of  different  acids  occurs  in  sea  water  due  to
contamination by industrial discharge. This condition causes deaths of fish and other aquatic animals
and contributes in the decline of productivity.
(v) Toxic Discharge: Several industries discharge Mercury Chlordane, dioxins etc. directly into
sea  water.  Different  toxic  pesticides  join  marine  ecosystems  through  rivers  and  streams.  These
poisonous substances kill marine animals of coastal and estuarine regions.
(vi) Introduction of Exotic species: Different types of species of marine animals and plants are
being shipped and transported all over the world where they do not have their natural enemies. This
introduction of marine species causes devastating effects on the economy and marine biodiversity.
The effects of invasion of jelly fish on the Black Sea is one of various examples of the effects of
introduction of exotic species documented so far.
(vii)  Global  Climatic  and  Atmospheric  Changes:  Changes  in  the  global  climate  and
atmosphere are affecting the flow of the ocean currents besides causing damages to marine flora and
fauna. It has been predicted that the global warming may cause storms and other natural disturbances.
The bleaching of coral reefs on global scale is occurring due to the global warming. It was during the
year 2000 that mass bleaching of coral reefs was observed. The concentration of CO  has been
2
reported to increase in the sea water due to air pollution. It is feared that this condition may impair
the deposition of lime stone skeletons of coral reefs.
(viii)  Physical  Alterations:  Port  dredging,  landfill,  coastal  solid  waste  dumps,  coastal
constructions, road buildings, cutting of coastal forests, beach and reef mining, trampling anchors and
pollution due to tourism and recreation are some activities that are causing physical alterations to the
marine environment. The mangroves have great economic values estimated by IUCN (1996) at around
US $ 10,000 / ha/ year but more than half of the mangrove forests have been lost over the past
century. According to an estimate about 58 per cent of the world’s coral reefs have been threatened
with the direct physical destruction.Fig. 9.6. Pollution of sea coast due to tourist activities.
9.5.3. Efforts to Recover the Loss to Marine Productivity and its Impact on Economy
There are various general and global measures to recover the loss to marine productivity and its
impact on economy. Some of those efforts have been listed below –
A. General Measures
1. Treatment of the industrial effluents before allowing them to mix in the sea water.
2. Large scale tree plantation in the catchments areas of rivers and ban on overgrazing.
3. Treatment of sewage before allowing it to join streams and rivers.
4. Control on cultivation along the banks of rivers.
5. Control on the emissions of the heat absorbing gases to prevent the global warming.
B. Global Measures
Various efforts have been made to check marine pollution and to recover the lost health of our
marine environment on international scale, from time to time. Some remarkable international efforts in
direction are mentioned below.
1. The Stockholm Conference on Marine Pollution-1972.
2. The International Agreements to control marine pollutions and enhance marine productivity.
3. The London Protocol -1996.
4. Basel Convention on the control of the Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Waste and
their disposal-1972.
5. The Global Programme of Action for the protection of the marine environment from land –
based Activities- 1995.
6. Agreement on the conservation and management of migratory fish stock and formulation of
code of conduct for responsible fisheries- 2001.
9
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…THE LONDON DUMPING CONVENTION
Seas and oceans are being used as open dumping areas since long. But dumping of litter in the sea can cause huge problems.
Degradation of dumped items can take different periods, and some items are hard to degrade through natural process. The dumped
materials cause serious marine pollution. Some materials are routinely dumped into sea water, and they are even more dangerous for
marine animals and corals. Some of such materials are matter from vessels, aircraft, and platforms of offshore drillings.
In view of reducing marine dumping, a dumping convention of 15 nations of the world was organized in London on November
13, 1972. It was called as the London Dumping Convention. The London Dumping Convention was called for by the United Nations
Conference  on  the  Human  Environment  (June  1972,  Stockholm);  the  treaty  was  drafted  at  the  Intergovernmental
Conference on the Convention on the Dumping of Wastes at Sea (November 13, 1972, London) and it was opened for
signature on December 29, 1972. It  entered  into  force  on  August  30,  1975  when  15  nations  ratified  International
Administration of the Convention functions through Consultative Meetings held at International Maritime Organization (IMO)
headquarters in London.
The Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter 1972, commonly
called the “London Convention” or “LC ’72" and also abbreviated as Marine Dumping, is an agreement to control pollution of the
sea by dumping and to encourage regional agreements supplementary to the Convention. It covers the deliberate disposal at sea of
wastes or other matter from vessels, aircraft, and platforms. It does not cover discharges from land-based sources such as pipes and
outfalls, wastes generated incidental to normal operation of vessels, or placement of materials for purposes other than mere disposal,
providing such disposal is not contrary to aims of the Convention. As of 2005, there were 81 Parties to the Convention.
The main objective of the London Convention is –
To prevent indiscriminate disposal at sea of wastes that could be liable for creating hazards to human health; Harming living
resources and marine life; Damaging amenities; or interfering with other legitimate uses of the sea.
The 1972 Convention extends its scope over “all marine waters other than the internal waters” of the States and prohibits the
dumping of certain hazardous materials. It further requires a prior special permit for the dumping of a number of other identified
materials and a prior general permit for other wastes or matter.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
PRODUCTIVITY : The production of biomass per unit area in a unit period of time in an ecosystem
is called as called as productivity.
PRIMARY PRODUCTIVITY : The rate at which the energy is converted by photosynthesis or chemosynthesis
to organic substances is called as Primary Productivity.
GROSS  PRIMARY : The rate of storage of organic matter in plant tissues in excess of respiratory
PRODUCTIVITY utilization by plants during the period of measurement is called as Net Primary
productivity.
FOREST PRODUCTIVITY : The total amount of organic matter produced per unit area of forest per unit of
time is called as Forest Productivity.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Mention any two factors causing decline in forest productivity.
2. How much of the agricultural land of the world has been degraded?
3. How much people have directly been affected by desertification?
4. Mention any one root cause of floods.
5. How much of the world’s coral reef have been threatened by direct physical destruction?
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(2 marks each)
1. What is the productivity of an ecosystem?
2. Distinguish between Gross Primary Productivity and Net Productivity.
3. Mention some of the major causes of decline in the forest productivity.
4. What is the impact of decline in agricultural productivity on the economy of a nation? Explain any two impacts.
5. What do you mean by the Marine Productivity? Mention any three causes for the decline in the marine productivity.(ICSE Specimen Question)
6. Name any two offshore oil fields in India.
(ICSE 2005)
7. How are the Global climatic changes affecting the marine productivity?
8. What is debt trap?
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 marks each)
1. What is Productivity? What is the impact of the decline in the productivity of the forest and marine ecosystems on the economy?
2. What are the principal causes of the decline in the agricultural productivity? What is the impact of its decline on economy? How
can it be recovered?
3. What is meant by offshore Drilling? Mention Environmental Effects of offshore Drilling.
(ICSE 2008)
4. Describe – London Dumping Convention.
5. Describe the International Efforts to recover the loss of Marine Productivity.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. Living organisms synthesize energy rich organic materials from energy poor inorganic materials in the environment through the
process of –
(a) photosynthesis
(b) respiration
(c) growth
(d) decomposition
2. The substance synthesized by a plant during the process of photosynthesis is called as –
(a) primary production
(b) secondary production
(c) net production
(d) final production
3. Total assimilation of organic substances in a plant is called as -
(a) gross primary productivity
(b) secondary productivity
(c) net productivity
(d) net primary productivity
4. Many of our resource bases are being depleted fast due to their utilization on –
(a) sustainable basis
(b) unsustainable basis
(c) regular basis
(d) uneconomic basis
5. It has been predicted that global warming may cause -
(a) storms and other natural disturbances
(b) cutting of coastal forests
(c) marine pollution
(d) eutrophication
B. Fill in the blanks
1. The decline in agricultural productivity is causing …… in many parts of the world.
2. A number of farmers in India want to leave farming because they think it no longer a …… business.
3. Uncontrolled exploitation of ground water has caused serious depletion of …… .
4. About 56 per cent of soil degradation is caused due to soil erosion through ……… .
5. Precipitation of different acids in sea water occurs due to its contamination with …… discharge.
C. True / False
Write T against the statement which is True and F against the statement which is False.
1. Some of the primary production is consumed by herbivores and is converted into other forms.
2. The rate of storage of organic matter in plant tissues minus respiratory utilization of organic matter by plants equals to primaryproductivity.
3. The productivity of a forest ecosystem is the total amount of organic matter produced per unit area of forest per unit time.
4. Only two third of the world’s land is fertile.
5. The mass bleaching of coral reefs was observed during the year 2000 due to the global warming.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Cutting of trees & overgrazing, 2. two- third, 3. 250 million, 4. sedimentation, 5. 58%
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1. (a), 2. (a), 3. (a), 4. (b), 5. (a)
B. Fill in the blanks
1. hunger, 2. profitable, 3. water table, 4. water, 5. industrial.
C. True / False
1. T, 2. F, 3.F, 4. F, 5. T.
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
9.1. PROJECT
Do a project on the impact of application of synthetic fertilizers on the productivity of agriculture. Adopt all the appropriate
methods of survey and data collection for a particular crop grown by a farmer in a nearby village. Write the Project Report.
9.2. OBSERVATION
Observe cases of improving productivity of agriculture by any three farmers in a village nearby your home. Write the activity
report.
9.3. SURVEY
Do a survey of any three fish farms. Enquire from the farm manager about measures he adopts for improving the productivity
of his fish farm. Also, find out about the potential dangers that may hamper the productivity.
9.4. DISCUSSION
Through the eco- club of your school, organise a group discussion on – What is better for increasing long term agricultural
productivity: the application of synthetic fertilizers or the application of manures.

CHAPTER10
Resettlement and
Rehabilitation of People
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction
u Displacement, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
u Issues Involved in Displacement and Resettlement
u Resettlement and Development
u Causes of Displacement of People
u Impact of Displacement on People
u Strategies for Rehabilitation of Displaced People in India
u International Efforts for R & R
10.1. INTRODUCTION
Groups of people have moved from place to place throughout the human history. The act of
coming to live in a foreign country by any group of people is called as Immigration. On the other
hand, the act of leaving a country, habitat or the resource base by any group of people is called asEmigration.
History reveals that large numbers of people have fled from their homelands because of different
types of disasters such as epidemics, hunger or war. On the contrary, tourism, recreation, surveys and
other  study  objectives,  spread  of  religion  etc.  have  also  been  some  specific  reasons  behind  the
movements of different groups of people. But, here in this lesson, we are basically concerned to
factors and conditions that disrupt livelihood of people, deprive them of their natural resources and
enforce them to leave their habitat for resettlement and rehabilitation. Let us try to understand these
terms first.
10.2. DISPLACEMENT, RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION
The act of compulsory acquisition of land for different purposes and forcing people to give
up their homes, resource bases, assets and means of livelihood is called as displacement. Large
scale  displacement  of  people  occurs  due  to  Mega  River  Valley  Projects,  establishment  of  big
industries,  mining  activities,  development  of  canal  systems,  railway  constructions  and  Natural
Disasters.
Displaced people have to settle on a suitable place which may serve as a favourable place
for their living and development. They settle on a new place usually with the intention of making
permanent new settlement. This is called as resettlement.
In many cases migrants of some areas use to occupy government places without any provision
from the government side. This leads to the problem of encroachment and development of slums in the
later course. The government favoured resettlement is observed in cases of displacement due to mega
projects. For the resettlement of displaced people due to a project, the declaration of an area under
Para 5.12 of the National Policy on Resettlement and Rehabilitation -2003, Government of India,
by  the  appropriate  Government  acquired  or  proposed  to  be  acquired  for  resettlement  and
rehabilitation of project affected families is called as a Resettlement Zone.
10.2.1. Issues Involved in Displacement and Resettlement
Human  Rights,  governance  and  accountability,  participation  and  self  determination  in
development, complexities of resettlement goals, options and strategies, relevant policy and legal
instrument- are some important issues that are involved in displacement and resettlement.
10.2.2. Resettlement and Development
Forced displacement of people has its deleterious and traumatic consequences. It is a distressful
and potentially destructive experience. Hence, it requires affirmative actions for the mitigation of
deleterious and traumatic effects.
According to the World Commission on Dams- Report, March 16, 2000; resettlement must be
planned and implemented as a developmental project over a minimum of two generations and include
not only protective measures but also the provisions of new rights, resources and strategies. Through
resettlement, the project authority or the administrator tries to restore the status quo ante and makes
available the material assets to project affected families. But these things do not go to fulfil the
requirement.  The  resettlement  of  people  should  also  incorporate  the  improvement  in  the  living
standard besides restoration of pre- relocation of living.
The result of resettlement conceived as development of project affected people besidestheir relocation and development of incomes, is called as Rehabilitation.
In other words, the arrangement for resettlement of people in distress due to displacement and
provisions of housing, employment, recreation, education, medical aid etc. to the displaced people is
called as rehabilitation. The rehabilitation is rather a vocational process of preparing people with
physical, sensory, emotional development, employment and helping them cope effectively with their
environment and to function as independently as possible.
According  to  the  report  of  The  World  Commission  on  Dams  (March16,  2000),  the
rehabilitation should also incorporate following elements –
(a) Enhancement of capabilities of people,
(b) Expansion of social opportunities by addressing the social and personal constraints that
restrict people’s choices,
(c) Landlessness should be converted to land- based settlement,
(d) Joblessness should be substituted with employment,
(e) Provisions of safe nutrition,
(f) Construction of houses,
(g) Improvements in health and wellbeing,
(h) Community reconstructions and social inclusions.
The United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration started was on July 1, 1947.
Among services supplied by the UNRRA, the maintenance of refugee camps, vocational training,
orientation for settlement and an extensive tracing service to find lost relatives come on the priority
basis.  The  Resettlement  and  Rehabilitation  (R  &R)  of  people  affected  due  to  natural  calamities
involve services like medical, Psychological, preparation for work etc.
10.3. CAUSES OF DISPLACEMENT OF PEOPLE
Fig. 10.1. Scene of a devastating cyclone.
The displacement of people from their habitat is caused due to several factors. These factors are
kept under two major categories- Natural causes and Man-made causes.
The  Natural  causes  of  displacement  of  people  comprise  volcanic  eruptions,  floods,
earthquakes, cyclones, tsunamis, etc. Each one of these causes is seriously dangerous, as each one of
these cause large scale devastation of life and property.The Man-made causes of displacement of people are listed below –
♦ Construction  of  mega-  dams  under  River  Valley  Projects  for  irrigation  and  power
generation.
♦ Activities  related  to  mining  projects  that  involve  large  scale  cutting  of  forests  and
clearance of land which finally result into large scale displacement of people.
♦ Reservation of large areas of land as National Parks, Biosphere Reserves, Sanctuaries etc.
lead to forced migration of people.
♦ Scarcity of resources and adverse conditions in the home environment enforce people to
migrate to resource rich and favourable environment.
♦ Construction  of  roads,  rail  tracks,  flyovers  etc.  and  establishment  of  industries  cause
compulsory displacement of people with little or no compensation.
There are still a number of man-made causes of migration and displacement of people from their
original habitats to some new habitats. Scarcity of food and other resources due to explosion of
population, defeat in war (as during the World War II, in 1945), desires for material gains (as during
13th century invasion by Turkish tribes on wealthy cities of Western Asia), search for religious and
political freedom, change in climate, search for warmer or colder regions are some of the other
reasons that stimulate people for movement to other habitats.
10.4. IMPACT OF DISPLACEMENT ON PEOPLE
The displacement of people from their habitats causes various types of risks on the parts of the
affected  people.  It  causes  the  risks  of  landlessness,  joblessness,  homelessness,  marginalization,
increased morbidity and mortality, food insecurity, loss of access to common property resources and
services, and social disturbances.
Besides the above, some of the major impacts of displacement are listed below–
Fig. 10.2. Refuge camp of tribal people who often have to face multiple displacement.
1. After displacement, the resettlement programmes usually loose momentum once the people
are shifted out of the particular place. According to the World Commission on Dams,
the focus on resettlement programmes remains always to simply get people to move
‘out of the way’ to the resettlement sites as quickly and smoothly as possible. The
displaced and resettled people are usually forgotten once their physical relocation iscomplete.
2. It has been observed that indigenous tribal people are subjected to multiple displacements
as  their  lands  are  not  considered  to  be  legal.  These  people  often  do  not  get  any
compensation for their lands and other properties.
3. The basic amenities and essential infrastructure such as schooling, health facilities, credit,
agriculture,  employment,  etc.  often  remain  incomplete  at  resettlement  sites.  These
conditions cause long lasting suffering to people.
4. Forced  displacement  and  relocation  destroys  production  processes  of  various  social
organisations. It breaks the network of relationships and allocation of resources as well
as individual and community rights.
5. The people of displacement areas become poorer even before their real displacement
as they have to break their occupational and financial schemes they use to run for years.
6. Displaced people often do not receive full compensation. They are very frequently cheated
by corrupt agents and office staff.
7. In cases of natural calamities and in other cases too, the displaced people are temporarily
shifted to refugee camps. In some cases these people become permanent refugees and the
refugee camps become their permanent homes that are later managed and repaired by
themselves.
8. In some cases lands of poor farmers and tribal people are forcefully acquired for private
mining and industrial purposes. Such cases have been observed in Maharashtra and
Orissa where people were forcibly displaced for grabbing their lands for mining and
other industrial purposes.
enviro_Facts : 10
The construction of mega dams and other such projects create large scale devastation and destruction of resource bases of
local people. One painful example is the submergence of the Traditional Tehri town set up in 1815 by Sudershan Shah due to the
construction of asia’s highest Tehri Dam (height 260 meters) on Bhagirathi River. On the construction of this dam the Gandhian
styled activist, has said,”This is a dam built with our tears.” The traumatic conditions of displaced people, inadequate rehabilitation
etc. are giving birth to a number of social organisations and movements in the affected areas. Some of the social organisations of
India fighting for the rehabilitation of displaced people and for the amendments in the Land Acquisition Act- 1984, are – Tehri
Bandh Virodhi Sangharsh Samiti (TBVSS), Visthapit Mukti Morcha, Jamshed Pur; Indian Social Institute, Delhi; Samaj Parivartan
Samuday, Karnataka; Shramjivi Sangathan, Maharashtra; and Narmada Bachao Andolan(NBA), led by Gandhian styled leader
Medha Patkar) etc.
Fig. 10.3. Submergence of the Tehri town.10.5. STRATEGIES FOR REHABILITATION OF DISPLACED PEOPLE IN
INDIA
A National Policy on Resettlement and Rehabilitation for Project Affected Families (PFAs)
-  2003(NPRR-2003),  was  published  in  the  Gazette  of  India,  Extra  Ordinary,  Part-I,  Section-1,
No.-46, on 17th February 2004. This policy aimed at lying down basic norms and packages for the
resettlement and rehabilitation of PAFs. The Policy has been subjected to revision and improvements
from time to time. Accordingly, the Draft National Development, Displacement and Rehabilitation
Policy was released during January, 2006. Some of the principal objectives and provisions are
being listed below –
(i) To minimize displacement and to identify non- displacing or least displacing alternatives,
(ii) To plan the resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected families including special
needs of tribals and vulnerable sections,
(iii) To provide better standards of living to PAFs,
(iv) To facilitate harmonious relationships between the requiring body and PAFs through mutual
co-operations.
Every  displaced  population  has  to  receive  adequate  compensation  according  to  the  Land
Acquisition Act -1994.  In  addition  to  the  legally  due  compensation,  every  displaced  community
should get rehabilitation package as per the Act. Some important features of the rehabilitation
package are listed below –
1.  In  all  irrigation  projects,  it  is  mandatory  that  all  the  displaced  people  who  primarily
depended  on  agriculture  are  settled  within  the  command  area  of  an  irrigation  project.  It  is  the
responsibility of the state to provide land to the Project Affected Populations (PAPs).
2. The unskilled and semiskilled persons out of the project affected population should be given
direct jobs in the project.
3.  The  government  must  undertake  a  special  Employment  Guarantee  Programme  for  a
minimum period of five years.
4. The resettlement sites must be granted the status of special Panchayat. The allocation of
Jawahar Rojgar Yojna (JRY), Indira Aavasiya Yojna (IAY) etc. must be suitably enhanced to cover
the needs of the people.
5. All the displaced families should be provided the homesteads and dwelling units within 50 sq
meters in urban and between 100 sq meters to 250 sq meters in rural areas.
6. The project should bear all the cost of transportation or trans-shipment of a family along with
its domestic animals, moveable properties, moveable building materials and other belongings from
the place of displacement to the place of resettlement.
7. The cost of providing agricultural land, homestead land, constructed houses, shops, working
sheds etc. should be realised from the amount of compensation awarded to the families receiving the
aforesaid packages under different conditions.
8. The resettlement and rehabilitation(RR) authorities shall provide at project cost the necessary
training to develop entrepreneurships and assist the adult members of the displaced families to take
up economically viable self employment projects.
9. All the families who have not been provided agricultural land or a regular job in the projectshall be entitled to rehabilitation grant equivalent to 750 days minimum agricultural wages.
10.  Tribals  should  be  resettled  close  to  their  habitats  so  as  to  ensure  continuation  of  their
traditional rights on minor forest produce and common property resources.
11.  Twenty  six  basic  amenities  and  infrastructural  facilities  must  be  provided  for  en-masse
resettlement. These amenities are- roads, safe drinking water, plantation, educational facilities,
community hall, irrigation facilities etc. These facilities are to be ensured for resettlement and
rehabilitation at the project cost.
Besides  the  above,  there  are  still  a  number  of  facilities  that  are  to  be  provided  to  project
affected families at the cost of the project. Some of those additional provisions are- preferential
rights of allotment of shares of project particularly of companies, and double benefits in case of
multiple displacements.
It has been observed that people from rural areas use to migrate to cities in search of jobs to
earn  money.  This  type  of  migration  can  be  reduced  by  implementing  Swarn  Jayanti  Swa-Rojgar
Yojna, rural-development and improving sustainable agriculture.
10.6. INTERNATIONAL EFFORTS FOR R & R
A  number  of  international  institutions  or  agencies  like  the  World  Bank,  United  Nations
Development Programme(UNDP), Exim Bank of United States and Jexim Bank of Japan etc.
are major financers of building of mega projects(including dams), and resettlement and rehabilitation
programmes. Of these institutions the World Bank Group is a big funder of dams in the world. As per
estimates  it  has  funded  about  US$58  billion  dollars  as  loans  for  construction  of  dams  and
rehabilitation works. The International Finance Corporation, a member of the World Bank is the
largest  loan  provider  and  equity  financer  for  private  sector  projects.  The  World  Bank  draws
operational directives pertaining to baseline surveys, compensations, relocations, income generations
etc. Among other operational policies of the bank, policies related to protection of environment and
development of indigenous people are of special importance. It is one of the leading institutions in
evolving policies to mitigate the impacts of displacement.
10
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
Mega Dams have been reported to cause earthquakes besides causing other forms of destruction in the affected areas.
As such the construction of Sardar Sarovar Dam and Indira Sagar Dam entails serious seismic and ecological risks. Experts are
of the opinion that the vicinity of the location of the Sardar Sarovar dam contains a Seismically Active Centre at the focal depth of
3km. Two faults namely BisarPur and Ambadongar also lie across the area upstream from the reservoir.
In Narmada Valley, two villages namely Vadgam (Gujrat) and Manibeli (Maharashtra) were among the first villages that were
submerged in July 1993 due to the construction of Sardar Sarovar Dam. After the submergence of these villages, the World Bank had
issued a document entitled ‘Next Step’ on September 11,1993 and had demanded that the submergence should have started one year
after the resettlement of villages. It had threatened to cut development loans unless construction of the dam was slowed down to
synchronise resettlement and rehabilitation(WWF-Publication- 1995). Now that the height of the dam is going to increase from
existing 110 meters to 121 meters,, and the rehabilitation process is found inadequate the volunteers of Narmada Bachao Andolan are
still fighting under the Gandhian styled activist Medha Patkar.
Counter Urbanization
The movement of people out of cities, to the surrounding areas is called as counter urbanization. This process has started in
more economically develped countries since 1950.
Counter urbanization is achieved in following ways-1. Growth of economy leading to increase in public and private transport systems
2. Increasing pollution, crime and congestion in urban areas
3. Search of open, less expensive, and natural spaces
4. Growth of means of communication technology and other facilities in surrounding areas of cities
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
DISPLACEMENT : The act of compulsory acquisition of land for different purposes and forcing
people  to  give  up  their  homes,  resource  bases,  assets  and  means  of
livelihood is called as displacement.
RESETTLEMENT : The accumulation of people on a suitable place that may favour their living
and development, with an intension of making permanent new settlement, is
called as resettlement.
REHABILITATION : The vocational process of preparing people with physical, sensory, emotional
development,  employment  and  helping  them  cope  effectively  with  their
environment  and  to  function  as  independently  as  possible  is  called  as
rehabilitation.
PROJECT : According to the National Policy on Resettlement and Rehabilitation for
Project Affected Families – 2003, Project means a project displacing 500
families or more en masse in plain areas and 250 families or more en masse
in hilly areas or other areas mentioned in schedule V and schedule VI of the
constitution  of  India.  In  general,  a  project  is  a  planned  piece  of  work
designed  to  produce  something  new.  Examples,  a  research  project,  a
building project etc.
PROJECT AFFECTED FAMILY : A  family  whose  place  of  residence  or  other  properties  or  resource  of
livelihood are substantially affected by the process of acquisition of land for
the project.
RESETTLEMENT : An officer not below the rank of a district collector, appointed in respect of
a  project  through  notification,  by  the  government,  for  resettlement  and
rehabilitation of PAFs.
REQUIRING BODY : A body, company, corporate institution or any other organisation for which
land is to be acquired.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. State any one aspect of development that should also be incorporated in a rehabilitation programme of project affected families.
2. Mention any one man made cause of displacement of people.
3. Where is the Tehri Dam located in India ?
4. On which river are the Sardar Sarovar and the Indira Sagar dams being built?
5. What is the name of the environmental activist who is leading to the Narmada Bachao Andolan?
6. When was the National Policy on Resettlement and Rehabilitaion published in the Gazette of India?
7. How many people, according to the World Commission on Dams(report of March- 2000) have been displaced in the world due
to reservoirs created by mega dams?
8. State any two ways of reducing migration from rural to urban areas.
(ICSE 2010)
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(2 marks each)
1. What is displacement?
2. Define Resettlement.
3. What do you mean by rehabilitation?
4. Mention any four elements that should be incorporated in a rehabilitation programme.
5. What elements should a rehabilitation programme incorporate as per the recommendations of the World Commission on Dams?6. Mention any three impacts of displacement of people.
7. What are the principal objectives of the National Policy on Resettlement and Rehabilitation of project affected people – 2003, in
India?
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 marks each)
1. What do you mean by resettlement and rehabilitation? Mention some of the important measures to be taken up during the
rehabilitation of the people distressed by the construction of a big dam somewhere in your country.
2. Developmental activities like construction of Dams and Mining lead to displacement of people. Explain any three problems faced
by these displaced people.
(ICSE 2007)
3. What are different causes of displacement of people?
4. Describe strategies for the rehabilitation of the people displaced due to projects in India.
5. What are the impacts of displacement of people from their habitats due to a developmental project?
6. According to the Land Acquisition Act -1894, every displaced community should get rehabilitation package. Mention principal
features of the rehabilitation package for displaced people.
7. What is counter-urbanisation? State any four ways of achieving counter urbainsatiow
(ICSE 2010)
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. The act of coming to live in a foreign country by any group of people is called as -
(a) displacement
(b) arrival
(c) immigration
(d) emigration
2. When groups of people leave their country, habitat or resource base, it is called as –
(a) emigration
(b) departure
(c) displacement
(d) immigration
3. The act of compulsory acquisition of land and forcing people to leave their homes is called as –
(a) resettlement
(b) rehabilitation
(c) displacement
(d) migration
4. The United States started resettlement and rehabilitation on –
(a) July 1, 1947
(b) January 28, 1974
(c) July 28, 1947
(d) August 15, 1949
5. The displacement of people on mass scale is basically concerned with –
(a) mega projects
(b) canals
(c) landslides
(d) road bridges
B. Fill in the Blanks
1. Rehabilitation is rather a ………… process.
2. Forced displacement of people has it’s ……… and ……consequences.
3. Resettlement must be planned and implemented as a ……project.
4. People of displacement areas become poorer even before their real …… .
5. The Narmada Bachao Andolan is being led by Gandhian styled leader named ………… .
C. True / False
Write T against the statement which is True and F against the statement which is False.1. History reveals that a large number of people fled from their home land due to soil erosion, in different parts of the world.
2. The displaced people have to settle on a suitable place.
3. Floods and cyclones sometimes act as natural causes of displacement.
4. Many displaced people often do not get adequate compensation due to legal obstacles.
5. Tribal people displaced due to projects must always be rehabilitated closest to cities.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. education, 2. construction of mega- dams, 3. on Bhagirathi River, a main tributary of Ganges, in outer Himalyas(U.P.), 4.
th
Sardar Sarovar and Indira Sagar, 5. Medha Patkar, 6. on 17  of February 2004, 7. 60 million.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1.(c), 2. (a), 3.(c), 4. (a), 5. (a)
B. Fill in the Blanks
1. vocational, 2. deleterious, traumatic, 3. development, 4. displacement, 5. Medha Patkar.
C. True / False
1. F, 2. T, 3. T, 4. T, 5. F.
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
10.1. OBSERVATION
Find out, if any type of developmental project is being implemented in your area. Observe cases of displacement, if any, due to
the project. If you observe displacement, find out about the rehabilitation measures, being taken up. If no displacement has occurred
due to it, find out about all possible impacts of the project on the local environment. Prepare a report.
10.2. DISCUSSION
Organise a discussion / debate on ‘Impacts of the construction of mega dams’ through the Eco- club of your school.
10.3. COLLECTION / COMPILATION / COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
Collect information in the forms of texts and photographs about the construction of the Sardar Sarovar and the Indira Sagar
dams on the Narmada River from news papers and magazines. Read carefully and write the whole story in your own words. Also
add your own opinion regarding benefits or harmful impacts (whatever you think) of these dams on people and environment. If you
have been successful in collecting complete information, write down a cost - benefit analysis of the construction of these dams.

CHAPTER11
Energy Crisis-Urban and
Rural Sectors
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction
u What is Energy Crisis?
u Effects of Energy Crisis on Economy
u Energy Crisis in Rural and Urban Sectors
u Energy Crisis in Rural Sector
u Energy Crisis in Urban Sector
u National and Global Scenes of Energy Consumption
u The National Scene of Energy Consumption
u The Global Scene of Energy Consumption
u How to Solve the Problem of the Energy Crisis?
u Development of Energy Efficient Technology
u Conservation of Energy and Reducing Wastage
u Development and Uses of Alternate Sources of Energy
u Proper Urban Planning11.1. INTRODUCTION
Energy is the basis of life processes on this planet. It is the basis of today’s civilization. In the
previous class, we have studied about energy, its different sources and its utilization. We have studied
that energy is the primary input in any system including industrial operations. We have also studied
that the consumption of energy has become synonymous with the socio-economic development of
countries. Some countries like United States etc. are developed countries. They utilize more energy.
Other  countries  like  India  etc.  are  developing  countries.  These  countries  utilize  less  energy  as
compared to developed countries. The United States, though its population is less than 5% of the
world’s population, utilizes 25% of oil, 26% of gas and 26% of coal of the world. Developing
countries  too,  are  trying  to  consume  more  and  more  energy  for  their  development.  Conventional
Sources of energy like fossil fuels are limited in stock but the growing population puts additional
pressure  on  the  demand  of  energy.  The  technologies  for  deriving  energy  from  non-conventional
sources of energy like sun, wind, water etc. are yet to be developed properly. Under these conditions
the whole world is facing an acute shortage of energy. This condition is called as energy crisis. In this
lesson,  we  have  to  study  about  Energy  Crisis  in  urban  and  rural  sectors  and  about  all  possible
measures of solving the energy crisis.
11.2. WHAT IS THE ENERGY CRISIS?
The dictionary meaning of the word ‘crisis’ is – a time of great difficulty, danger or uncertainty,
when problems must be solved and important decisions must be taken so as to neutralize or minimize
impacts. In the context of environment, the energy crisis is a time of acute shortage of energy
resources creating a situation of great difficulties, danger or uncertainty before the world. The
crisis of energy occurs due to a great shortfall in the supply of energy resources like gasoline
(petrol), diesel, natural gas, kerosene, electricity and traditional sources. The crisis of energy
causes rise in the cost of both the production and transportation leading to general rise in the prices.
These problems are to be solved and important decisions are to be taken to face the conditions and to
protect the balance of the economy.
11.3. EFFECTS OF ENERGY CRISIS ON ECONOMY
The prices of energy resources are governed by the principle of Supply and Demand. Any
change in the supply or in the demand can cause sudden change in the price of the energy resource
concerned.Fig. 11.1. A long line of people with LPG- cylinders, waiting for their turn in front of counter of a gas agency.
The energy crisis is directly related to the market economy. This is due to the fact that prices of
energy resources are directly governed by the principle of supply and demand. When there is a short
supply of any resource, its demand in the market is bound to increase automatically. Some of you
might have seen long lines of people carrying LPG (Liquified Petroleum Gas) cylinders in front of
the counter of a gas agency (Fig. 11.1.). This condition results into a competition among consumers
which encourages the market to raise the price of the resource concerned. This condition causes an
energy crisis at a particular time. In other words, the crisis of energy occurs when markets fail to
adjust prices in response to shortages of energy resources. Some economists are of the opinion that
the energy crisis that occurred during 1973 was worsened by improper price control system.
11.4. ENERGY CRISIS IN RURAL AND URBAN SECTORS
Though the pattern of consumption of energy is different in rural and urban sectors, both the
sectors are facing the crisis of energy. Let us discuss crises in these two sectors separately.
11.4.1. Energy Crisis in Rural Sector
The rural people need energy for many different purposes most of which are mentioned below-
(i) Cooking of food
(ii) Lighting of homes and surrounding,Fig. 11.2. A Combine machine used in agriculture needs energy for its operations.
(iii) Running  of  agricultural  machines  or  appliances  like  tractors,  threshers,  harvesters,
winnowing fans, combines, engine operated ploughs, harrows, seeders, transplanters etc.(
Fig. 11.2.),
(iv) Running of irrigation pump sets and motors of tube wells,
(v) Running of fans, televisions, computers etc. in some electrified villages,
(vi) Lighting  Anganwadi  Kendras,  village  council’s  houses,  village  Panchayat  houses  and
community halls (where diesel generators/ electricity is available).
Besides these, rural people need muscle power of humans for working in fields, bullocks for
ploughing  fields  and  some  other  animals  for  carrying  goods.  Rural  people  mostly  depend  on
traditional sources of energy like their own muscle power, animal energy, animal dung, fuel wood and
crop residues. Animal dung, fuel wood and crop residues account for 35% to 40% of the total
consumption of energy in India. But, with increasing population and development of rural areas
these traditional sources are being largely replaced by modern fuels like coal, diesel, and petroleum.
All of these are fossil fuels and these fuels cause considerable level of pollution. Appliances used in
agriculture consume diesels and electricity up to considerable extent. Kerosene is used for lighting
houses. With rising prices of crude oil, and depletion of indigenous trees, villages are facing
acute  crisis  of  energy  today.  Rising  prices  of  coal,  replacement  of  cattle  by  machines  and
consumption of high priced diesel have put the rural economy into a critical stage. Even the kerosene
oil meant for lighting the homes of the rural poor has become costlier, though it is under public
distribution system.
Wood has been a major source of energy in the rural sector. Earlier, it was easily available
because vast tracts of forests existed in many parts of the world and the amount of wood needed for
household purposes was relatively low. As the wood began to be used for producing charcoal for
industrial uses, rural people started clearing forests and selling wood for income generation. Illegal
timber- trade also started in most parts of the world (Fig. 11.3.). Thus rural sector was caught into an
acute crisis of energy. About two billion people of the rural world don’t have access to adequate,
affordable and convenient sources of energy. Millions of rural ladies in the world walk up to many
kilometers for collection of wood for cooking purposes (Fig. 11.4.).Fig. 11.3. Illegal Timber Trade goes on in most parts of the world.
Fig. 11.4. Millions of rural ladies in the world walk up to many kilometers for collection of wood for cooking purpose.
11.4.2. Energy Crisis in Urban Sector
The Urban Sectors consume more energy than rural sectors. This is due to following reasons-
I. Urban  Sectors  have  many  industries,  workshops,  shops  and  shopping  complexes,
hospitals, government and public institutions etc. Most of these work day and night.
Thus,  they  consume  greater  parts  of  energy.  Both  the  light  and  heavy  machines  in
industries need energy for their working.
Most of the machines are run on electricity. But the generation of electricity consumes coal
which is a fossil fuel.
Great amounts of coal and coke are consumed in metallurgical operations. Machines that don’t
run on electricity require diesel, petrol or gas that too is fossil fuel. We have limited supply of fossilfuels; still their consumption is increasing at a fast rate. Here are some projections-
(a) The annual consumption of fossil fuels in 1999 has been 324 quadrillion British Thermal
Units (Btu).
(b) The global consumption of oil is projected to rise from 78 million barrels per day in 2015
and 119 million barrels per day in 2025.
(c) According  to  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Environmental  Programme  (UNEP)
-1998, the richest 20% of the world’s population accounts for the consumption of 85% of
the total energy produced in the world. Thus, unequal sharing of energy too, is leading
our cities towards energy crisis.
II. Urban sectors have different types of networks of transport systems. Besides these,
most  of  the  people  move  in  their  own  vehicles  and  ignore  public  transport  system.
According  to  the  report  of  UNDP,  UNEP  and  World  Bank  (1998),  about  16  million
vehicles have come onto the world’s roads annually. The passenger cars account for 15%
of the total global energy. Transport and industry are major consumers of oil in the world.
The transportation sector accounts for about 60 % of the projected increase in the
use of oil from 2002 to 2025. All the rest volume of oil is expected to be consumed by
industries.
Under above conditions, the consumption of fossil fuels is increasing day by day. We know that
we have limited stock of fossil fuels. On the other hand, prices of crude oil and other fuels are rising
at a very fast rate due to increasing rates of their consumption. With the slow down of fuel supply and
rise in demand, urban sectors are bound to face energy crisis.
III. The flow of traffic towards cities is increasing which is leading to the growth of urban
population  and  urban  congestion.  Every  house  needs  energy  for  regular  domestic
activities like cooking and running various types of home appliances.
The authorities concerned with the control of traffic in metropolitan cities apply different
rules and ways for controlling traffic. Strict parking prohibitions, creation of traffic lanes
along roads, encouraging public transporation, and use of traffic signals are some of the
important ways of controlling traffic in these cities.
enviro_Facts : 11
HISTORICAL ACCOUNT OF ENERGY CRISIS
The Historical Accounts reveal that the world has been facing Energy Crisis since 1993. A brief historical account of the
same is being given below –
Year Details
1993 In response to western support of Israel during Yom Kippur War, many oil producing
states of Arab imposed oil export embargo, creating oil- crisis.
1979 Energy – crisis due to Iranian Revolution.
1990 Energy – crisis due to spike in the price of oil because of the Gulf War.
2000 Energy – crisis due to UK fuel protest because of rise in the price of crude oil and
high taxation on road fuel.
2004 -2006 Energy crisis due to increase in the oil price, tight supply margins in the face of the
increasing demand.
11.5. NATIONAL AND GLOBAL SCENES OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION11.5.1. The National Scene of Energy Consumption
In India, we have traditional sources of energy like animal waste, fuel wood and crop residues,
fossil resources like coal, oil and natural resources and secondary sources like hydroelectric and
nuclear sources. Of the total primary energy, 60% is contributed by commercial fuels. 69% of the
electricity is produced from coal, 25% is produced by hydel power. Diesel and natural gas contribute
up to 4% whereas 2% is contributed from nuclear power. Energy from non- conventional sources like
solar, biomass, wind and tidal energy account for only one percent.
It was during past two decades that demand of energy in India went up steeply. It was caused
due  to  growth  in  industrial  and  transport  sectors,  population  growth,  urban  congestion,  rise  in
household uses of energy, more access to consumer products and increase in the use of energy in
agriculture. Rapid industrialization, urbanization, mechanization and changing life styles of people
are also causing continuous increase in the energy requirements in India.
In an important address on 26th June 2006, at Tata Energy Research Institute, New Delhi (India),
President  Dr.  A.P.J.Abdul  Kalam  asked  the  energy  sector  to  raise  the  existing  power  generation
capacity of 130,000 MW to 400,000 MW by 2030 to achieve Energy Independence. According to the
President, India can achieve Energy Independence through three different sources- hydel capacity,
nuclear power and non- conventional sources like solar energy, thermal power, bio- mass energy etc.
The  power  generation  targets  according  to  the  Scientist  President  of  India,  Dr.  A.P.J.
Abdul Kalam, are detailed below-
(A). The Existing Capacity of Power Generation 1 30000 MW
(B). Targets to be achieved up to 2030
(i) Nuclear Power 50 000 MW
(ii) Hydel Capacity 50 000 MW
(iii) Large Scale Solar Energy Farms 55 000 MW
(iv) Conventional Thermal Plants & through renewable sources- 1 15000 MW
like wind power, bio-mass, and municipal waste and solar-
thermal power
TOTAL (A+B) 400,000 MW
11.5.2. The Global Scene of Energy Consumption
Some energy experts of the world are of the opinion that the world is progressing towards a
Global Energy Crisis due to the scarcity of oil. They recommend that the world should reduce its
dependence on fossil fuels. There is a vast gap between the energy consumption by developed and the
developing nations. The Nations of the Organization of Economic Co- operation and Development
(OECD) consume 8053Kilowatt-hours (kWh) of energy on per capita basis. It is about 100 times
greater than per capita energy consumption in least developed nations. According to the reports of
United Nations Development Programme-2000, per capita consumption energy in least developed
nations is only 83 kilo Watt hour.
The rate of total energy consumption between 1972 and 1999 remained 2%. It decreased from
2.8% in 1970s and again 2.1 % in 1990s. According to the report of UNDP-2000, it was due to the
global financial crisis over past 30 years that the global per capita consumption of energy grew by
about 70% during 1972 – 1999.11.6. HOW TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM OF ENERGY CRISIS?
The problem of energy crisis can be solved by conservation of energy and by developing its
non-conventional sources. It is the practice of increasing the efficiency of the use of energy in order to
achieve higher useful out put for the same energy consumption. The conservation of energy increases
national  and  personal  security,  financial  capital,  human  comfort  and  environmental  value.  The
problem of crisis of energy can be solved through following methods-
11.6.1. Development of Energy Efficient Technology
It  has  often  been  observed  that  much  of  our  fossil  fuels  and  other  fuels  are  wasted  due  to
improper  combustion.  The  development  and  application  of  advanced  technologies  for  proper
combustion can lead to production of more energy and improvements in energy production. Now,
scientists and engineers are working to develop more efficient methods of deriving maximum energy
out of fuels. They are designing more efficient transportation systems so as to reduce the loss of
energy as fuel in transport.
All  the  production  and  processing  of  goods  including  mining,  construction,  manufacturing,
farming etc. are concerned with the industrial sector.Increasing cost of energy resources during past
thirty years have forced the industry sector to make substantial improvements in their technologies. As
a  result,  the  total  use  of  energy  in  the  industrial  sector  has  declined  during  the  last  decade.
Responsible and profit conscious industries put greater emphasis on modification of products and
manufacturing  process  in  order  to  save  energy.  The  industrial  sector  can  make  following
improvements in order to save energy–
(a) Judicious lighting,
(b) Recovery of waste and recycling
(c) Technological innovations like re-designing products and process to embody technology of
greater efficiency.
11.6.2. Conservation of Energy and Reducing Wastage
The practice of increasing the efficiency of use of energy in order to achieve higher useful output
for the same energy consumption is called as energy conservation.Fig.11.5. Fluorescent lights consume less energy.
The  energy  conservation  helps  in  increasing  national  security,  personal  security,  financial
capital, human comfort and environmental values. That is why; we celebrate the National Energy
Conservation Day on 14th December, every year. Here are some examples of the methods of energy
conservation.
(i) Better insulation of buildings,
(ii) Recovery of waste heat produced during many industrial processes and its better use.
(iii) Encourage travel by bus and train rather than by private cars.
(iv) Encouraging the use of fluorescent lights because these lights produce three times more
light per unit of electricity than other lights do (Fig.11.5.).
(v) Lowering of thermostats in winter and raising them during summer.
(vi) Turning off unnecessary lights.
(vii) Recycling of paper and metals.
11.6.3. Development and Uses of Alternate Sources of Energy
In view of the global energy crisis, scientists the world over are inclined in the research of
alternate sources of energy such as fuel- cells technology, hydrogen fuel, bio-diesel, bio-methanol,
karrick process, solar energy, tidal energy, hydroelectricity, nuclear power and energy from Bio-mass
(like Bio- gas etc.). Bio-gas, Social Forestry, Solar Energy etc. can be some most useful renewable
sources of energy in Rural Areas.
11.6.4. Proper Urban Planning
Many of our Indian cities are facing congestion due to heavy flow of labour force from rural
areas. On the other hand, the growth of human population is another factor responsible for causing this
problem. Great volumes of fuels are wasted due to frequent traffic jams and very slow movements of
vehicles. In modern conditions an approach of New Urbanism and Transit- oriented development of
cities has become most important.Secondary City : Many cities typically develop at the intersections of major highways and in
other  important  areas  near  cities.  Such  cities  often  feature  amenities  that  serve  large  sub-urban
populations. Such cities are called secondary cities. A secondary city can be defined as- “sizeable
commerical centres offering a mix of employment, shopping and intertainment, and serving primarily
a  sub-urban  area”.  Examples  :  Greater  Mumbai,  Hyderabad,  Pune,  Chennai,  (India),  Edison’s
Township, Plan, Tysors (USA) etc.
There are various other solutions also to the problem of the energy crisis. In order to solve this
problem in rural areas, following steps can be taken up-
(a) Policy makers should offer priority on rural energy and rural developments.
(b) The  rural  people  should  be  put  at  the  focus  of  planning  and  implementation  and  the
development of rural energy must be decentralised.
(c) The  development  of  rural  energy  must  be  integrated  with  different  aspects  of  rural
development.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
The sun and stars are seemingly inexhausitble sources of energy. That energy is the result of
nuclear  reactions,  in  which  matter  is  converted  to  energy.  We  have  been  able  to  harness  that
mechanism  and  regularly  use  it  to  generate  power.  Presently,  nuclear  energy  provides  for
approximately 16% of the world’s electricity. Unlike the stars, the nuclear reactors that we have
today work on the principle of nuclear fission. Scientists are working like madmen to make fusion
reactors which have the potential of providing more energy with fewer disadvantages than fission
reactors.
ADVANTAGES OF NUCLEAR ENERGY
1. The Earth has limited supplies of coal and oil. Nuclear power plants could still produce
electricity after coal and oil become scarce.
2. Nuclear power plants need less fuel than ones which burn fossil fuels.
3. Coal and oil burning plants pollute the air. Well-operated nuclear power plants do not
release contaminants into the environment.
DISADVANTAGES OF NUCLEAR ENERGY
1. A nuclear accident may go out of control leading to a nuclear explosion and the emission of
great amounts of radiation.
2. Radiations due to a nuclear accident may produce seriously dangerous effects for many years.
3.  Nuclear  reactors  also  have  waste  disposal  problems.  Reactors  produce  nuclear  waste
products which emit dangerous radiation. Because they could kill people who touch them, they cannot
be thrown away like ordinary garbage. Currently, many nuclear wastes are stored in special cooling
pools at the nuclear reactors.
4. Nuclear reactors only last for about forty to fifty years.
11
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
Specialists in the field of energy conservation are of the opinion that we do not realise the importance of renewable energy
and bio- fuels in full spirit. They forward some suggestions to protect the country from energy crisis, some of those suggestions are
mentioned below.
It should be made mandatory for housing societies, government buildings and industrial houses to use solar energy for lighting
and heating systems. It may be helpful in reducing the consumption of energy derived from conventional sources.Governments provide subsidies on kerosene oil which is supplied through public distribution system. Instead of subsidising
kerosene, governments may subsidise applications of solar energy so as to reduce the consumption of the kerosene oil, a fossil fuel.
Attractive incentives can be offered to both the industrial houses and individuals to encourage the supply of electricity
generated through wind power plants and other renewable sources.
Cost effective products should be developed by encouraging Research and Development (R&D). So far we have been
able to harness only 45, 000MW of wind power. A big push to this sector can be given through proper Research and Development
and also through offering tax- incentives.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
ENERGY CRISIS : The energy crisis is a time of acute shortage of energy resources creating a
situation of great difficulties, danger or uncertainty before the world.
FOSSIL FUEL : Dead remains of plants and animals buried deep underground and obtained
through mining for the use as fuel to produce energy. Examples: petroleum,
natural gas, coal etc.
BTU : British thermal unit .The amount of heat required to raise the temperature of
one  pound  of  water  by  one  degree  Fahrenheit  (this  unit  of  energy  has
currently been replaced by the S. I. Unit, the joule or J.
URBAN PLANNING : Making plans for proper building up of a city.
ENERGY CONSERVATION : The practice of increasing the efficiency of use of energy in order to achieve
higher useful output for the same energy consumption is called as energy
conservation.
BIO- FUELS : Sources of biological origin that produce energy on combustion. Examples:
crop residues.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Name any two traditional sources of energy.
2. Name the principle that governs prices of energy resources.
3. What is the major source of energy in the rural sector?
4. What will be the global consumption of oil in 2015 according to current projections?
5. How much increase in the use of oil has been projected to occur from 2002 to 2025 in transportation sector?
6. It was during last two decades that demand of energy in India went up steeply. What were the causes of increase in the demand
of energy during that period?
7. Write full form of LPG. State one disadvantage of using it as a fuel.
(ICSE 2006)
8. When is the Energy Conservation Day celebrated in India?
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(2 marks each)
1. What is the energy crisis? Why does it occur?
2. What is the effect of energy crisis on Economy?
3. Why has the rural sector been caught into an acute crisis of energy?
4. What are important causes of energy crisis in the urban sector?
5. How does urban planning affect energy consumption?
6. Name any two prospective sites of tidal energy in India.
(ICSE 2005)
7. Suggest two renewable energy sources for meeting the energy demand in Rural Areas.
(ICSE 2007)
8. Define Secondary City. Give any one example.
(ICSE 2010)III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 marks each)
1. What do you mean by energy crisis? Describe energy crisis in rural sectors.
2. How is the urban sector facing an energy crisis? Suggest some important measures to solve the problem of energy crisis.
3. Why do urban sectors consume more energy than rural sectors?
4. Discuss the national scene of Energy consumption in India.
5. “The world is progressing towards a “Global Energy Crisis”– Comment.
6. State two advantages and two disadvantages of nuclear energy.
(ICSE 2010)
7. Explain any four ways of controlling the problem of road traffic in metropolitan cities.
(ICSE 2010)
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. Acute scarcity of energy sources is called as -
(a) energy conservation
(b) energy crisis
(c) energy crisis
(d) acid rain
2. The whole world is facing an acute scarcity of –
(a) food
(b) water
(c) energy
(d) wood
3. Prices of energy resources are controlled by the Economic Principle of –
(a) supply
(b) demand
(c) supply and demand
(d) consumption
4. The lobby of OPEC countries comprise –
(a) UAE, Saudi Arabia, U.S., Norway, Kuwait
(b) UAE, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Norway, Kuwait
(c) Saudi Arabia, UAE, Japan, India, China
(d) China, UAE, Israel, Kuwait, Venezuela
5. The total consumption of energy in India accounted by animal dung, fuel wood, and crop residues is –
(a) 35 – 40 %
(b) 40 – 60 %
(c) 10 – 30 %
(d) 35 – 55 %
B. Fill in the blanks
1. Sun, wind, water, etc. are … … sources of energy.
2. Prices of energy resources are directly governed by the principle of supply and … ….
3. The richest 20% of the world’s population accounts for the consumption of … … per cent of the total energy produced in the
world.
4. Animal waste, fuel wood, and crop residues are … sources of energy.
5. The insulation of buildings is also a way of … conservation.
C. True / False
Write T against the statement which is True and F against the statement which is False.
1. Travel by bus and by train is wastage of energy.
2. Recycling of paper and metals is a way of energy conservation.
3. Urban planning has nothing to do with energy conservation.
4. Policy makers should offer priority on rural energy and rural development.
AnswersI. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. animal dung, 2.supply and demand, 3.wood, 4. 78 million barrels, 5.60% 6. Oil crisis, Gulf war, oil price hike; 7. Liquified
th
petroleum gas, disadvantages – Limited supply 8. 14  December
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1.(b), 2. (c), 3. (c), 4. (b), 5. (a).
B. Fill in the blanks
1. Non-conventional, 2.Demand, 3.85, 4.traditional / biological 5.Energy.
C. True/False
1. F, 2.T, 3.F, 4.T,
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
11.1. PROJECT
Prepare a project on “Traditional Sources of Energy- Status and Conservation”. Write the Project Report properly in your
project book.
11.2. SURVEY
Do a survey of Energy Consumption in any 10 houses in your locality. Record, data pertaining to the consumption of different
sources of energy, separately. Write a survey report suggesting measures to reduce energy consumption in your locality.

CHAPTER12
Global Issues of Environment
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction
u Green House Effect
u Green House Effect: How does it Occur?
u Green House Gases
u Importance of Green House Effect
u Green House Effect and Global Warmingu Global Warming and Climate Change
u Impact of Global Warming
u Prevention and Control of Global Warming
u Global Efforts
u Acid Rain
u How is Acid Rain caused?
u Acid Deposition
u Impact of Acid Rain
u Prevention and Control of Acid Rain
u Depletion of Ozone Layer
u What is Ozone? How is it Formed?
u Importance of Ozone Layer
u Ultraviolet Radiations and their Harmful Effects
u Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS)
u How is the Ozone Layer Depleted?
u Prevention and Control of Ozone Depletion
u Global Efforts
12.1. INTRODUCTION
Our environment today is facing a number of problems. All those problems are causing dangers
to take shape against the existence of the whole biosphere of this planet. But, who is behind all those
problems? The answer is – M A N.
All those problems have become great topics for discussion, planning and implementation at all
levels. An important topic that people discuss or argue about is called as an issue. We have
different types of environmental issues at local, regional, national and global levels. Here in this
chapter,  we  are  going  to  discuss  about  some  global  issues  like  Green  House  Effect  and  Global
Warming, Climate Change, Acid Rain and Depletion of Ozone Layer. These are global issues caused
due to human activities in their own countries but these issues relate to the fate of the whole planet.
Here we must not forget that the root-cause behind all these issues is exponential growth of
human population. Until and unless the explosive growth of human population is kept in control
through proper strategies, all of our efforts for tackling global issues will fall flat. Proper Family
Planning and adopting birth control measures are essential strategies for effective control of growth
of Human Population.
12.2. GREEN HOUSE EFFECT
The warming effect produced inside a green house by its glass panels, is called as Green
House Effect. A green house is a specialized house constructed at horticulture stations for keeping
plants that survive better in warm surrounding.
12.2.1. Green House Effect: How Does it Occur?Fig. 12.1. A Green House.
The walls or panels of a green house are made of specialized glass that allows short wave solar
radiations to go inside but does not allow long wave infrared heat energy of the glass house to pass
out. In fact, some of the solar radiations that are absorbed inside the green house get transformed into
heat energy in the form of long wave infrared radiations that can not go out of the glass panels of the
green house. Thus, temperature inside the green house rises as compared to the temperature outside.
The term- Green House Effect was coined by J. Fourier in 1827.
12.2.2. Green House Gases (GHGs)
Gases that help in causing green house effect are called as green house gases (GHGs). These
gases either occur naturally or are produced on earth due to human activities of burning fossil fuel and
bio-mass. One of the most abundant naturally occurring green house gases is the water vapour. Other
green house gases are carbon dioxide, methane, Nitrous oxide, Trifluoromethyl sulphur pentafluoride
and hydrochlorofluorocarbons. It is since 1700s, that a substantial increase in the concentration of
green house gases has occurred in the atmosphere.
1. Water Vapour: It accounts for about 60 to 70 percent of the natural green house effect. Its
level in the atmosphere rises with the increasing global warming adding up further to the green house
effect.
2. Carbon dioxide: In the modern age of industrialization and increasing automobile exhausts the
concentration of carbon dioxide is increasing faster than the earth’s natural capacity of assimilation. It
has been assessed that the level of CO  in the atmosphere has risen by more than 30 percent since
2
1750. Currently, the CO  concentration in the atmosphere is about 370 parts per million (ppm). It
2
accounts for more than 60 percent of the additional green house effect.
3.  Methane:  This  gas  is  produced  through  various  sources  like  decomposing  organic
substances, coal mining, production and transport of other fossil fuels etc. Its concentration in the
atmosphere has become more than double since 1750. Scientists are of the opinion that it is an
extremely effective heat trapping gas. One molecule of methane is 20 times more efficient in terms
of trapping infrared radiation than a molecule of carbon dioxide.
4.  Nitrous  Oxide:  This  gas  is  released  into  the  atmosphere  by  burning  of  fossil  fuels,
automobile  exhaust,  decomposition  of  nitrogenous  fertilizers  in  the  soil  etc.  Its  level  in  theatmosphere has risen by 17 percent since 1750. This gas has a capacity of trapping heat 300 times
more effectively than carbon dioxide. It can stay in the atmosphere for about 100 years.
5.  Fluorinated  Compounds:  Compounds  comprising  CFCs  (chlorofluoro-carbons),  HCFCs
(hydrochlorofluorocarbons) and HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) are man- made compounds called as
fluorinated compounds. These compounds are used in a variety of manufacturing processes. Each
molecule of these synthetic compounds is many thousand times more effective in trapping infrared
radiations than a single molecule of carbon dioxide. CFCs were first synthesized in 1928. Since then
these were widely used in the manufacture of aerosol sprays, blowing agents for foams, packing
materials, as solvents and as refrigerants. By 1992 an amendment in the Montreal Protocol was
made to ban these compounds worldwide. However, the HFCs compounds do not contain chlorine
and stay in the atmosphere only for a short time. Hence, these are regarded as safe for various
applications.
6. Trifluoromethyl sulphur pentafluoride: This compound was not reported before 2000. Each
molecule of this industrially produced compound can trap heat more effectively than all the other
gases known to cause green house effect.
12.2.3. Importance of Green House Effect
Our Earth is subjected to green house effect which is very important for creating a climate
favourable to the sustenance of most forms of life on it. In this context, the green house effect can be
defined as –
The effect of warming and insulation of the earth caused due to some heat trapping gases
accumulated in the atmosphere after their emission from the earth surface, is called as green
house effect.
The natural green house effect is in fact, a process of thermal blanketing of the earth which
maintains its temperature around 33 Celsius degrees which helps in the sustenance of life on it.
Without the green house effect, the climate of the earth is reported to become too cold for most of the
life  to  survive.  Then,  the  temperature  may  fall  much  below  the  required  level  essential  for  the
existence of life. Hence green house effect is an important natural process which is essential for the
survival of life on this planet.
12.2.4. Green House Effect and Global Warming
Human activities of pollution are modifying the natural process of green house effect. The advent
of the Industrial Revolution in the 1700s boosted up the activities of burning of fossil fuels like coal,
oil and natural gas which released lots of heat absorbing gases into the atmosphere. Clearing of land
for  agriculture  or  for  urban  settlements  wiped  out  the  forests  &  vegetation  that  acted  as
ecological sink for some of those gases like carbon dioxide.Fig. 12.2. Global Warming.
These heat absorbing gases accumulate in high concentrations in the upper atmosphere around
the earth extending up to 100 km above its surface and act as glass panels of a green house. They
allow much of the short wave solar radiation to reach to the earth surface but stop much of the long
wave infrared rays against escaping out as heat. They absorb these infrared radiations and then re-
radiate most of them back to the earth surface. Thus, the temperature of the atmosphere rises gradually
causing an unnatural heating effect which is called as the Global Warming. The Global Warming is
the enhanced green house effect due to greater accumulation of GHGs in the upper atmosphere.
The warming of the earth’s atmosphere attributed to a build up of green house gases in
high concentration in the atmosphere is called as the Global Warming. It is a term which is used
to refer to the observed increase in the average temperature of the earth’s atmosphere and
oceans  in  recent  decades.  Scientific  discoveries  reveal  that  the  world  experienced  warmest
atmosphere during last 50 years out of the period of 100 years. The global mean temperature
increased by about 0.5 to 1 degree Celsius, within a period of last 100 years.
12.2.5. Global Warming and Climate Change
The regular pattern of weather conditions of a particular place is called as climate of that
place.  This  regular  pattern  of  weather  conditions  is  considerably  disturbed  by  fluctuations  in
temperature. The disturbance in the pattern of weather conditions at a particular place may rightly be
called as Climate Change.
The Global Warming itself is not the Climate Change as the effects of global warming may
not  be  uniformly  negative.  But,  it  is  the  abnormal  rise  in  global  temperature  that  is  causing
changes in the global climate. Most of the causes of climate change are man-made. Principal man-
made causes of climate change are (a) Industrial Activites (b) Jhum cultivation, (c) burning of
crop-residues  in  fields  (d)  deforestation,  and  (e)  Vehicular  Pollution.  Let  us  see,  how  abnormal
changes in temperature may lead to climate change.
Temperature has significant role in the regulation of water cycle in the environment. Hence, rise
in global temperature can change the pattern of water cycle. On the other hand, increased temperature
can cause most of the ice to melt down. The increased evaporation of water due to high temperature
may alter the pattern of cloud formation and rains at different places. The physical features of theearth also play important roles in causing temperature variations that finally result into variations in
air pressures. These variations cause disastrous conditions like storms, cyclones, tornadoes and
hurricanes etc.
International  agencies  studying  the  climate  change  have  projected  the  globally  averaged
temperature  to  increase  by  1.4  to  5.8  degrees  Celsius  over  the  period  1990  to  2100.  The
Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change  (IPCC)  does  important  climatic  researches  and
surveys on periodic basis. It has hundreds of scientists from many different countries who study and
analyse the meteorological changes and provide a collective pictures of global warming and other
changes in the climate systems. The Third Assessment Report of IPCC was released in January
2001.
According  to  the  reports  of  Asia-Least  Cost  Green  House  Gas  Abatement  Strategy
(ALGAS) Project, the energy sector is the largest contributor of GHG (55%) in India. The ALGAS
Project in India is funded by the Asian Development Bank, Global Environmental Facility (GEF)
and United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP).
12.2.6. Impact of Global Warming
The Global Warming or the climate change has various types of impacts on the whole earth and
its systems.
Some of the major impacts of Global Warming (or the climate change) are mentioned
below.
1. Global Warming may cause frequent natural disasters like cyclones, storms and hurricanes,
floods  and  droughts.  It  may  also  cause  cloud  bursts,  avalanches,  landslides,  mud-  flows  and
earthquakes.
Fig. 12.3. Melting of ice at Antarctica.
2. Global Warming is causing melting of ice and glaciers which is leading to a rise in sea-
level. As a result, the creeping up of oceans swallow low lying islands and coastal areas.
The rising sea level is causing loss of land, loss of property and loss of lives. It may also causelarge scale displacement of people which may further create a problem of rehabilitation.
3. It is damaging forests, agriculture and water supplies.
4. It is damaging various ecosystems like mangrove-swamps, coral reefs and coastal lagoons
etc. due to various reasons like reduction in pH of oceanic water and increasing deposits of acids.
5. Some populations of migratory birds have been declining because of unfavorable variations
in climatic conditions. On the other hand the migration time of spring butterflies in Britain has become
earlier than it was 30 years ago. It has been observed that the behaviors of some bird species
have changed due to climatic variations in the Indian state of Orissa. Some birds like Black
Headed Oriole and Open Billed Stork have changed their times of migration whereas some birds like
Bronze Winged Jacuana and Indian Small Skylark have changed their nesting behaviors.
The Change in Climate, in the long run could affect agriculture in a number of ways –
1. It may cause reduction in productivity both in terms of quality and quantity
2. Climate change may lead to changes in the water-use Pattern that may finally lead to failure of
crops.
3. Climate change may enforce organisms to become more competitive and adoptive. It may
adversely affect the agriculture.
4. Frequent changes in seasons and alterations in weather pattern may ruin the crop leading the
world towards hunger and poverty.
enviro_Facts : 12
A. As per land records of 1930, a cluster of seven villages named as ‘Satabhaya’ (seven brothers) was spread in an area of 320
sq km near Paradip of Orissa state of India. By 2000, five out of seven villages were gradually swallowed by the sea and
the area of 320 sq km was reduced to mere 155 sq km. Similarly, a large number of other villages located near the sea
coast in Orissa have so far been swallowed in by the sea and the people residing in those villages have been migrated
elsewhere. The reason ? … yes, the global warming.
th
B. It has been reported that melting of glaciers has contributed as much as 30 percent of change in sea level in the 20  century.
The Gangotri glacier has shrunk more than 850 meters from 1996 to 1999. Melting of ice at Antarctica has caused
growth of grass for the first time there.
th
C. The total surface of glaciers worldwide has decreased by 50 percent since the end of the 19  century. According to a report,
the snow cap that covered the top of Mount Kilimanjaro for last 11000 years since the last ice age was almost
disappeared upto March 2005.
D. The change in climate due to rise in global temperature is causing migration of species of wild animals towards poles and high
altitudes. Since those areas are already inhabited by animals of different species, the migrated species receive the status of
Refugee Species.
12.2.7. Prevention And Control of Global Warming or Climate Change
Since all these and a lot of other miseries are feared to encircle us in near future due to climate
change, let us come closure to formulate some strategy to make a carbon neutral world, yes a world
without any change in the global climate. For this the United Nations Environment Programme has
directed (2008) us through following words -
Carbon-neutral, yes – that sounds familiar. But climate Change, it is strange? The answer is
simple: it is not just carbon dioxide, CO  that is driving climate change, even if it makes up almost 80
2
per cent of the climate gases (including contributions from changes in land use) emitted by human
activities. Carbon dioxide is the most abundant greenhouse gas we are adding to the atmosphere, but
it is not the only one. The international climate change treaty, the Kyoto Protocol, limits the emissions
of six main GHGs produced by human activities. These gases are carbon dioxide (CO ), methane
2(CH ),  nitrous  oxide  (N O),  hydro  fluorocarbons  (HFC),  per  fluorocarbons  (PFC),  and  sulphur
4 2
hexafluoride (SF ).
6
Measures and instruments to arrest the Climate Change
The measures to control or mitigate the global climate change can be divided into two categories
- the Technological Changes; and the Behavioural Changes. Following are some tips to reduce the
climate change-
1. Controlling global emissions through various measures like local control, tax measures or
carbon  credit  system  to  reduce  carbon  emission  from  commercial  and  residential
building.
2. Control of emission through motor vehicles.
3. Control on air conditioning refrigerant leaks.
4. Use of alternatives to diesel, natural gas, and propane.
5. Fuel taxes for GHG emission.
6. Changes in urban and transport infrastructures to reduce the need for motorized transport
and shift demand to less energy intensive transport models.
7. Traditional  approaches  to  reduce  unwanted  emissions  need  to  be  supplemented  with
market  mechanisms,  voluntary  agreements,  tax  policy  and  other  non-traditional
approaches.
8. Regeneration of forests, agroforestry.
9. Solid waste and waste disposal measures.
10. Economic instruments like subsidies, taxes, and tradable permits/ quotas as well as joint
implementations.
11. Regulatory mechanisms.
12.2.8. Global Efforts
Periodic Surveys, researches and assessments have proved that the global warming causing
changes in the world climates is increasing day by day. It is currently recognized as an important
global issue. Representatives from over 160 countries have met regularly to discuss ways to reduce
GHG emission. In 1997 a conference was organized in Kyôto, Japan, in which world nations signed
an agreement called as Kyôto Protocol. According to the Protocol, the industrialized nations were
required to cut their GHG emissions to an average of 5 percent below 1990 levels, by 2012. Russia’s
cabinet approved the treaty in 2004 and paved the way to start it with effect from 2005. The protocol
has been ratified by more than 126 countries. But Australia and U.S. did not support the protocol.
In early December 2005, representatives from 90 countries met in Montreal; Canada, to discuss
ways  on  cutting  down  the  use  of  fossil  fuels  so  as  to  ensure  less  emission  of  carbon  dioxide.
According to the Montreal bulletins, the CO  level in the atmosphere is now higher within past
2
650,000 years. Unfortunately the two biggest CO  emitters of the world – Australia and United States
2
refused to cut down their emissions.
12.3. ACID RAIN
Falling down of acids from atmosphere to the earth in different forms is called as acid rain. In
other words, we can say that-
The process by which acids with pH normally below 5.6 are removed from the atmospherein rain, snow, hail or sleet is called as acid rain.
The quantity of acid in a liquid, like water is measured by a scale called as pH scale. In fact, the
acid content of a solution is based on the concentration of Hydrogen Ions and it is expressed as pH.
The acidity of rain samples is usually measured by pH- scale. As the number on a pH- scale goes
down, it indicates more and more acidic nature of the sample of the rain water. Zero number indicates
maximum acidity, seven (7) number indicates neutrality where as fourteen (14) number indicates
maximum alkalinity. You might have studied about pH in your Chemistry classes.
Fig. 12.4. pH- scale showing increasing acidity and alkalinity.
12.3.1. How is the Acid Rain Caused?
Acid is a substance chemically characterized by the ability to form a salt on reacting with a
base. It turns blue colour of litmus into red and can burn or cause injury to animal skin and plant
leaves that come into its contact.
In the modern industrialized world furnaces, engines and machines burn lots of fossil fuels
regularly. Burning of fossil fuels emits gaseous pollutants like oxides of sulphur and nitrogen etc.
Forest fires also cause the release of acidic fumes and vapours that go up into the atmosphere. These
substances are regarded as serious air pollutants. These pollutants are transported in the atmosphere
over distances of hundreds and thousands of kilometers. In their journey through sky, these pollutants
eventually combine with water vapour to form acids like Sulphuric Acid (H SO ) and Nitric Acid
2 4
(HNO ). These acids are washed down during rains to reach to the earth surface. Such a rain is called
3
as acid rain.
There are other pollutants as well that help in the process of acid rain. These pollutants are
Hydrocarbons, soot and metallic ions of manganese, iron, nickel and copper etc. that may often
remain inside water vapour. These particles have been reported to catalyze the process of acid
formation.
Sulphur dioxide and Hydrogen Sulphide may form Sulphuric acid where as Nitrogen oxide may
form Nitric acid when combined with water. Similarly, other acids like Hydrochloric acid, Carbonic
acid and Phosphoric acid may also be formed in the atmosphere as secondary pollutants and may bewashed down to earth along with rain water, snow, hail or sleet.
Chemical Reactions pertaining to the formation of acid during the process of acid deposition/
acid rain are given as follows.
A. In Atmosphere [reactions with Sulphur dioxide]
(i) When SO  reacts with Oxygen and water vapour
2
(ii) When SO  reacts with stratospheric Ozone
2
B. In Atmosphere [reactions with NOx]
In another case
12.3.2. Acid Deposition
When acid forming primary pollutants like SO , H S and NO  move through atmosphere, they
2 2 x
encounter a number of solid particles and water vapour moving in air. Some of those pollutants
combine with water vapour to form secondary pollutants like acids of sulphur and nitrogen that fall
down as acid rain. This is called as wet deposition of acids. When acid forming pollutants are
absorbed by solid particles like fly ash etc. already present as pollutants in the atmosphere, this
process is called as dry deposition of acids. In fact, dry deposition refers to acidic gases absorbed
by particles that move through wind here and there. The acids absorbed by solid particles in air are
also washed down to earth during rains; otherwise they remain in the atmosphere for longer periods.
In this way the concentration of acids in rain water is increased. These processes i.e. wet and dry
deposition of acids in the environment are together called as Acid Deposition in the Environment.
The acid rain is only a part of acid deposition.12.3.3. Impact of Acid Rain
The  acid  rain  affects  living  and  non-  living  components  of  environment.  In  July  1982,
Stockholm-the venue of U N –conference on acid rain, suffered heavy acid showers for about a week.
In India too, acid rains have been reported since last twenty years in areas where thermal power
plants are located and also around Delhi, the capital of India.
Some of the remarkable impacts of acid rain are mentioned below-
A. Impacts on Human Health: Acids of rain water join food-chains and water cycles and reach
to human body systems. There they cause various types of health problems like neurological and
digestive disorders, problems of eyes, throat and respiratory tract. Acid rain causes varieties of
safety hazards like reduced visibility due to smog etc.
B. Impact on Flora and Fauna: Acid rain has seriously adverse impacts on aquatic as well as
terrestrial flora and fauna. It kills fishes in lakes and ponds. Sweden and U.S.A. have 15000 and 100
fishless lakes respectively due to acid rains. About 237 lakes in Adirondack have highly acidic water
with pH below 5. Numerous species of microorganisms are also killed due to acid rains. About 10
percent of forests have been destroyed and 18 million acres of vegetation are under serious threat due
to acid rains in West Germany.
Acid of acid rains reaches to wild animals through water cycle and food- chains and cause
serious  health  problems  often  leading  to  death.  Acidic  water  containing  traces  of  toxic  metals
destroys root systems of plants.
Since acid rain is a transboundary problem, both Norway and Sweden experience up to 90
percent acid rain due to air pollution in United Kingdom. Acid deposition in soil damages trees like
Pine, Cedar, Ashes, Birch, and Spruce etc. About 5000 sq km of Cedar trees in Japan have already
been damaged by acid rains. The populations of phytoplanktons, snails, insects etc. are eliminated
due to acid rains.
C. Impact of Acid Rain on Monuments: Acid is corrosive by nature. Hence, water containing
acids will also be naturally corrosive. Even dry acids deposited in air causes damage to limestone,
marble and metals. Acid rain causes heavy damage to monuments and other buildings containing
limestone, marble and metals as acids quickly react with these substances. Some chemical reactions
of Sulphuric acid with different substances are given below.
The damage caused to rocks and marble by acid rain is called as marble-leprosy or stone-
leprosy. In India acid rain was reported to cause damage to the walls of Taj Mahal in Agra.
Recently, the issues of pollution harming the marble surface of the Taj Mahal have arisen. InAgra, today, pollution levels are high. Although the Taj is cleaned approximately every one to two
years with a resin compound, the marble is beginning to be discolored with a yellow hue from
pollution. There is more than one cause contributing to the pollution around the Taj Mahal. There are
factories in Agra that emit dangerous sulfur and smoke. Exhaust from vehicles also harms the Taj.
Both the Government and non-government bodies are trying to make Agra a pollution-free city but
their objectives include reducing lead and sulfur emissions, and they are initiating sales of low-lead
or lead-free gasoline in the area. Such ideas are admirable but are arguably not addressing the real
problems. To generate power and avoid blackouts in cities like Agra, pollution is being generated at
an unlawful scale.
Steps are being taken to reduce the pollution levels around the Taj. Several strategies are now in
place to help protect the Taj Mahal. For example, all nearby transport must run only on electric
battery power and may not come within a third of a mile (500 meters) of the monument. Investment in
urban infrastructure has been used to reduce both water and air pollution.
In 2005, a new air monitoring system was adopted at the Taj Mahal to continuously measure air
quality. Importantly, this new system will enable those protecting the building to better understand
local wind patterns, the precise pollution load of the air, and the direction the wind is coming from.
But because wind can carry pollution from great distances, there is still the challenging political and
legal question of how particular industries can be held accountable.
Local and regional governments in India have tried in their own way to watch over the Taj
Mahal.  So  too,  has  the  national  government’s  Ministry  of  Petroleum  and  National  Gas,  via  the
introduction of a 10-point plan to clean up Agra’s air.
Acid rain has caused serious damages to different things and statues in the world like monuments
and statues in Italy and Greece etc. St. Paul’s Cathedral in Bristol is being corroded by acid rains.
The British environment experiences acidic snow fall. Much of the snow that falls there contains
acids due to which the snow does not melt easily.
12.3.4. Prevention and Control of Acid Rain
Acid rain can be prevented by controlling air pollution especially from industrial sources. For
this,  industrial  units  should  install  such  technological  equipments  or  devices  that  may  control
emissions at the source of their origin. Scrubbers, filters and electrostatic precipitators are some
devices  that  help  in  controlling  as  well  as  removing  air  pollutants.  Acidic  water  should  be
neutralized chemically so as to reduce its toxicity. The existing level of air pollutants especially CO ,
2
SO , NO, NO , N O etc. should gradually be removed out of atmosphere through specific technology.
2 2 2
Vehicles should also be fitted with pollution control devices. They must be checked regularly for their
exhausts.Fig. 12.5. St. Paul’s Cathedral in Bristol is subjected to regular corrosion by acid rains.
12.4. DEPLETION OF OZONE LAYER
The depletion of ozone layer is one of the Global Issues of environment related to atmosphere
and air pollution. But, what is ozone? How is it formed? What are its functions? …etc., are many
questions that we need be answer here. Let us take up these questions one by one.
12.4.1. What is Ozone? How is it Formed?
Ozone is one of the three allotropes of oxygen, an element in gaseous form. It is triatomic and
less stable than oxygen. Its chemical formula is O .
3
Ozone in the stratosphere is very important to life. It is formed by the action of the ultraviolet
light from the sun on molecules of oxygen. However, it is mainly produced from oxygen containing
molecules such as SO , NO , aldehyde etc. also when these molecules are exposed to ultraviolet
2 2
radiations. Here is an example of the chemical reaction that takes place during the formation of ozone
from NO .
2
Ultraviolet radiation
A large number of ozone molecules assemble around the earth to form the Ozone Layer which
extends from 12 to 45 km above the earth surface. On an average it is about 230 Dobson units (DU)
in thickness. DU is the unit which measures thickness of the ozone layer. It equals to 0.01 mm. One
Dobson unit is the number of molecules of ozone that would be needed to create a layer of pure ozone
0.01 mm thick at a temperature of zero degrees Celsius at pressure of 1 Atmosphere. 1DU = 2.69 ×
1016 ozone molecules.12.4.2. Importance of Ozone layer
Ozone absorbs ultraviolet radiations so that much of it is never allowed to reach to the earth
surface. The protective umbrella of ozone layer in the stratosphere protects the earth from harmful
ultraviolet radiations. Ozone plays an important role in the biology and climatology on the earth’s
environment.  It  filters  out  all  the  radiations  that  remain  below  3000Å.  Radiations  below  this
wavelength are biologically harmful. Hence any depletion of ozone layer is sure to exert catastrophic
impacts on life in the biosphere.
12.4.3. Ultraviolet Radiations and their Harmful Impacts
There are three types of ultraviolet radiations in the sunlight- ultraviolet-A, ultraviolet-B and
ultraviolet-C radiations. The UV-A is a low energy radiation with wavelengths 400 to 315 nm (1nm=
10Å). It is not harmful to life. UV- B radiations that comprise 1- 5 percent of the total radiation, is a
short wave radiation (315 to 280 nm) with high energy. It is harmful to life. The UV- C radiation is a
radiation of shortest wavelength (280 to 100 nm) with highest quantum of energy. It has great power
to damage life but the ozone layer does not allow it at all to pass through and to reach to the earth.
HARMFUL IMPACTS OF ULTRAVIOLET RADIATIONS–
(1) UV radiation causes sun- eye- diseases (cataract), skin diseases, skin cancer and damage
to immune system in our body.
(2) It damages plants and causes reduction in crop productivity.
(3) It damages embryos of fish, shrimps, crabs and amphibians. The population of salamanders
is reducing due to UV-radiations reaching to the earth.
(4) UV- radiations damage fabrics, pipes, paints, and other non-living materials on this earth.
(5) It contributes in the Global Warming. If the ozone depletion continues, the temperature
around the world may rise even up to 5.5 Celsius degrees.
12.4.4. Substances that cause depletion of Ozone Layer
Chlorofluorocarbons, methane, nitrous oxides (N O), carbon tetrachloride (CCl ), methyl
2 4
bromide (a soil fumigant and insecticide), aircraft emissions, n- propyl bromide and Halon- 1202
are major agents that cause depletion of ozone layer. Hence, these are called as Ozone Depleting
Substances (ODS).
Chlorofluorocarbons  are  a  group  of  aliphatic  organic  compounds.  These  are  a  family  of
synthetic chemicals that are mostly the compounds of chlorine, fluorine and carbon. These are stable,
nonflammable, non-corrosive chemicals with a peculiar trade name Freon. This trade name has been
registered by the E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company. Being relatively non- toxic chemicals, these
are easy and inexpensive to produce. These were first developed in 1930s but found widespread use
only in the years following World War II. During 1970s CFCs were linked to destruction of ozone
layer due to which its manufacture has been banned in most of the countries of the world. Some
important members of CFCgroup are dichlorodifluoromethane (Freon-12), trichlorofluoromethane
(Freon-  11),  chlorodifluoromethane  (Freon-  22),  dichlorotetrafluoroethane  (Freon-  114)  and
trichlorotrifluoroethane (Freon- 113). On earth these chemicals are used extensively as aerosol-
spray propellants, refrigerants, solvents and foam blowing agents.12.4.5. How is the Ozone Layer Depleted?
Chlorofluorocarbons  or  Freons  get  accumulated  in  greater  amounts  at  high  altitudes  and
gradually reach to the stratosphere. Under the influence of intense short wave ultraviolet radiations
they release chlorine atoms. A single chlorine atom can react with more than, 100,000 molecules of
ozone and can convert them into oxygen. Other ozone depleting substances like methane, nitrous
oxide, methyl bromide etc. too, pass through a series of reactions under the influence of UV-radiations
of sunlight and catalysts found in the air and help in the depletion of ozone layer.
Fig. 12.6. The Ozone Hole over Antarctic, Ocotober 21, 2006 (Source : NASA news)
Ozone Hole: The hole in the context of ozone depletion relates to thinning of the ozone layer in
a certain area. The satellite measurements done in September 2000 revealed that the thinning of ozone
layer in Antarctic had reached a record 28.3 million sq km which was about one million sq km
greater than the record of 1998. As per the latest record of October 21, 2006, the area of ozone hole
was 29 million square kilometers (Fig. 12.6). The blue and purple colours are where there is the least
ozone and the greens, yellows and reds are where there is more ozone (NASA, Paul Newman, Image
and Records; Satellite Aura). Thinning of ozone in such a big area is rightly termed as ozone hole.
The ozone hole in the Northern Latitudes has also been recorded. The ozone hole over Antarctica may
expose not only the Antarctica but also a large area of the pacific and Atlantic oceans and South
America as well.
12.4.6. Prevention and Control of Ozone Depletion
Banning  the  production  and  use  of  ozone  depleting  substances  is  one  important  way  of
preventing further depletion of the ozone layer in the stratosphere. On the other hand, alternatives to
these chemical compounds should also be searched out so as to replace these chemicals. Scientists of
the University of California, U.S.A. devised a possible way of plugging the ozone hole by injecting
alkanes or propanes into the atmosphere of Antarctica. The alkanes have the affinity of reactingwith ozone destroying chlorine atoms. According to the scientists, about 50,000 tonnes of alkane
or propane would have to be blown to check the ozone loss. These chemicals could be released
from an altitude of about 15 km by a group of hundreds of large aircrafts.
12.4.7. Global Efforts
Since ozone depletion is a Global Environmental Problem, it requires strong global efforts and
co-operations for its solution. The International Community is taking up strong efforts as a result of
which global consumption of ozone depleting substances has decreased markedly.
Following the UNEP’s Governing Council’s meeting to co- ordinate activities on protecting
ozone layer in 1975, United States, Canada, Norway and Sweden banned the use of CFCs. The
production capacity of the European Union (E U) was frozen allowing limited uses of aerosols. In
March 1985, 28 countries of the world agreed on Vienna Convention for the protection of the ozone
layer. In September 1987, different countries of the world adopted Montreal Protocol on substances
that deplete ozone layer. By December 2001, 182 countries ratified the Vienna Convention and 181
the Montreal Protocol. By 2000, 96 chemicals were subject to control under the Montreal Protocol.
12
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
Indian government is contributing its best in arresting Global Warming under United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change by adopting Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Project of the Kyôto Protocol- 1997 to check the GHGs
emission. The country has worked on the project for past two years and has emerged as a pioneer in the reduction of GHGs. Thus
India has become able to generate Rs.10, 000 crores from the mechanism through Carbon Credit System. Carbon Credits are
measured in units of Certified Emission Reductions (CERs). By adopting cleaner and environment friendly technologies industrial
units can gain these credits. Rs. 17,000 crores have been invested by India in the project of the Clean Development Mechanism. Still
there are 300 projects which are to be completed by 2012.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
ISSUE : An important topic that people discuss or argue about, is called as an issue.
GREEN HOUSE EFFECT : The warming effect produced inside a green house by its glass panels is called
as green house effect.
GLOBAL WARMING : The enhanced green house effect due to greater accumulation of green house
gases is known as Global Warming.
CLIMATE : The regular pattern of weather conditions of a particular area is called as
climate.
CLIMATE CHANGE : Change in the regular pattern of weather conditions (due to global warming) is
called as climate change.
IPCC : Inter governmental Panel for Climate Change.
ALGAS : Asia-Least Cost Green house Gas Abatement Strategy.
GEF : Global Environment Facility.
ACID RAIN : The process by which acids from pH normally below 5.6 are removed from
the atmosphere through rain, snow, hail or sleet is called as acid rain.
ACID DEPOSITION : Accumulation of acids in dry or wet forms or in both the forms, in the
environment, is called as acid deposition.
FLORA AND FAUNA : All the plants of an area are collectively called as flora of that area. In the
same way, all the animals of an area are collectively called as fauna of that
area.OZONE : One of the three allotropes of oxygen, an element in gaseous form, is called
ozone.
NANOMETER (NM) : –9
Nanometer, unit of measurement of length, (1 nanometre = 10  m)
Å : Angstrom unit, used to measure wavelengths of electromagnetic radiations, a
-10
unit of length which is equal to 10  meter.
CFCS : Chlorofluorocarbons,  a  group  of  aliphatic  organic  compounds  synthesized
artificially for industrial uses like manufacture of aerosol, refrigerants, solvents
and foam blowing agents etc. are called as CFCs.
FREON : It  is  the  trade  name  of  a  group  of  Chlorofluoromethanes  or
chlorofluorocarbons.
OZONE HOLE : An area in the ozone layer which has become very thin due to reactions of
ozone and ozone depleting substances.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Mention names of any two green house gases.
th
2. What has been the reason behind widespread retreat of mountain glaciers in non-polar regions during 20  century?
3. How much of the green house gases are contributed by the energy sector in India to the Global Warming?
4. Write names of countries that did not support the proposal of cutting down of CO2 emission in a meeting of the world nations
organized at Montreal, Canada in early December of 2005?
5. In which year did the Stockholm- the venue of UN- Conference on Acid Rain suffered continuous showers of acid rain for
about a week?
6. What is stone- leprosy?
7. Which Ultraviolet radiation is completely absorbed by the ozone layer?
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
[2 Marks Each]
1. Suggest any two strategies to control population growth in India?
(ICSE 2010)
2. What is the Green House Effect? How is it useful for the existence of life on the earth?
3. What is the Global Warming? How is it connected to the Green House Effect?
4. How is the Global Warming associated with the Climate Change? Mention any one example.
5. Mention two man-made causes of climate change.
(ICSE 2008)
6. Mention any two cases showing Climate Change as per the third assessment Report of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) - 2001. Add your own explanation to each case.
7. What is Acid Rain? Mention factors responsible for causing Acid Rain.
8. What is ozone? Explain the process of depletion of ozone layer.
(ICSE 2007)
9. What are harmful effects of Ultraviolet Radiations?
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 Marks Each)
1. Define Green House Effect. State four consequences of this phenomenon in the environment.
(ICSE 2007)
2. What is Global Warming? Describe its impacts. How is the global warming, related to the Climate Change?
3. The depletion of ozone layer is one of the man’s major environmental concern. In this context discuss the cause of its depletion
with reference to chlorofluorocarbons with reasonable details.
(ICSE 2005)
4. Briefly explain Global Warming.
(ICSE 2007)
5. Mention six ways in which global warming could eventually effect agriculture.
(ICSE 2005)6. What is Acid Rain? How is it caused? Mention any three impacts of acid rain including the impact on monuments.
7. How does the Ozone Layer protect life on this planet? How is it depleted? Suggest any two measures for the control of
depletion of the Ozone Layer.
8. Describe global efforts for the prevention and control of the Global Warming and the Depletion of the Ozone Layer.
9. Acid Rain has been found to be extremely dangerous. Mention any four effects of the acid rain.
(ICSE 2006)
10. Explain briefly the formation of acid rain.
(ICSE 2008)
11. Suggest four measures to control climate change.
(ICSE 2006)
12. What are the steps that have been taken to save Taj Mahal from the effects of Acid Rain?
(ICSE 2006)
13. Mention six ways in which Global Warming could eventually affect agriculture.
(ICSE 2005)
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. Green House Effect, Acid Rain, and Depletion of Ozone Layer are –
(a) local Issues
(b) national Issues
(c) regional Issues
(d) international Issues
2. Green House Effect is –
(a) a natural and essential effect
(b) an un-natural and harmful effect
(c) an effect produced by green plants
(d) an effect produced in a house painted in green
3. A heat trapping compound not discovered before 2000 is –
(a) carbon dioxide
(b) chlorofluorocarbon
(c) trifluoromethylsulphurpenta fluoride
(d) freon-114
4. The regular pattern of weather conditions of a particular area is called as –
(a) global Warming
(b) climate
(c) green House Effect
(d) climate Change
5. Global Warming is caused due to –
(a) heating effects of solar radiations
(b) enhanced Green House Effect
(c) acid Rain
(d) melting of ice
B. Fill in the blanks
1. Water vapour accounts for …… to …… percent of the natural Green House Effect.
2. Vegetation acts as a natural …… for some of the gaseous pollutants like carbon dioxide.
3. Global Warming causes changes in ………… .
4. Five, out of the seven villages of SATABHAYA village- cluster that have been swallowed by the rising sea belonged to ………
State, of India.
5. Species migrated due to changes in climate receive the status of …………… .
C. True / False
Write T against the statement which is True and F against the statement which is False-
1. Decreasing number on pH scale shows decreasing acidity.
2. The number for neutral pH is 7.
3. Both dry and wet deposition of acids may cause damage to our monuments.4. Stone – leprosy is a disease which affects stone – cutters.
5. Global Warming is caused due to acid rains.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Carbon dioxide, methane, 2. global warming, 3.55 %, 4.Australia and United States, 5.1982, 6. damage ( weathering)
caused to stones and marble due to acid rain, 7. UV-C
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1. (d), 2.(a), 3.(c), 4. (b), 5. (b),
B. Fill in the blanks
1. 60, 70, 2. sink, 3. climate, 4. Orissa, 5. refugee species
C. True / False
1. F, 2.T, 3. T,4. F, 5. F.
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
12.1. PROJECT
Prepare a project on ‘Global Warming- Causes and Effects’. Incorporate latest data and photographs and write the project
properly.
12.2. SURVEY
Do a survey of any ten houses of your locality and find out how many types of ozone depleting substances (ODS) are used in
each house. Write a survey report with your suggestions at the end.
12.3. DISCUSSION
Organize a discussion on ‘Acid Rain’.

CHAPTER13
Disasters : Types,
Management and Mitigation
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction : Disaster-What Does it Mean?
u Components of a Disaster
u Classification of Disasters
u Disaster Management and Mitigation Strategies
u Meaning of Management and Mitigation of Disasters
u Strategies for Management and Mitigation of Disasters
u Management and Mitigation of Disasters
u Management and Mitigation of Natural Disasters
u Management and Mitigation of Man-made Disasters
u Governments’ Role in Disaster Management and Mitigation
13.1. INTRODUCTION : DISASTER-WHAT DOES IT MEAN?An unexpected event that kills a lot of people or animals and causes a lot of damage may
be called as a disaster. The term DISASTER has been derived from DISASTRE- a French word,
which means ‘an evil star’. In general, a disaster is a set of terrible and unexpected events that occur
due to natural or human- induced reasons and cause severe losses to life, property and environment
up to such an extent that the affected society becomes unable to cope up with its own resources.
13.2. COMPONENTS OF A DISASTER
A  Disaster  has  two  components  –  Vulnerability  and  Hazard.  When  vulnerability  meets  a
hazard, the disaster is bound to occur. Let us discuss these two terms first.
The extent to which anything is likely to be damaged or disrupted by the impact of a
particular  hazard  is  called  as  vulnerability.  The  word  anything  in  this  context  relates  to  a
community, structure, service or geographical area. But, what is a hazard?
Any dangerous condition or event that threatens or has the potential for causing damage to
life, property or environment is called as hazard. Both the vulnerability and hazard together cause a
disaster. Here is an example. A house made of mud walls is more vulnerable to some type of hazard
than a house made of concrete walls. Any hazard like heavy rain accompanied by speedy wind may
damage the house causing losses to life and property. This is what we call a disaster. Here is another
example. A human habitation close to a sea coast has high vulnerability of being swallowed by rising
sea waves- the hazard. The condition of drowning of the human habitation, deaths of inhabitants and
loss of property, is a disaster.
Let us make a comparison between hazard and disaster. A hazard is just a threat which may or
may not cause a disaster. A disaster is the event caused by a hazard. A cyclone is a hazard and it can
not be called a disaster if it does not do any harm to anyone. It turns into a disaster when it affects
populated areas and causes losses to life and property.Fig. 13.1. Flow Chart- Vulnerability and Hazard meet together to cause Disaster.
The measure of the expected losses (like deaths, injuries, property losses etc.) that are
caused by a hazard of some particular magnitude over any specific time in a given area is called
as risk. Let us take a third example which incorporates all the three – vulnerability, hazard and risk.
A bird’s nest having three or four young ones has a high degree of vulnerability if it is located close to
a high voltage electric wire passing through the same area. To and fro movement of the high voltage
electric  wire  may  be  a  hazard  for  the  family  of  the  particular  bird.  One  day  in  a  storm,  the
vulnerability meets to the hazard and the disaster occurs. It is the disaster for the male bird that has
lost his wife and children during the electric shock. For other birds, it may just be an accident. The
total of losses including the loss of life and the property (the nest) is the total risk involved in the
disaster.
Causes of vulnerability: There are three major causes of vulnerability- 1. Underlying causes,
2. Dynamic pressure and 3. Unsafe conditions.
The dynamic causes include limited access to resources, illness and disability, age and sex andpoverty  etc.  The  Dynamic  pressure  include-  lack  of  institution,  education  and  training,  skills;
expansion of population, urbanization, uncontrolled developments and environmental degradation etc.
The Unsafe conditions may be – earthquake, tsunami, floods, cyclones, volcanic eruptions, droughts,
landslides, war, technological accidents and environmental pollutions etc. The following flow chart
explains these reasons more properly.
13.3. CLASSIFICATION OF DISASTERS
We know that there are two types of disasters: (1) Natural and (2) Man made or Human Induced
Disasters.
13.3.1. Natural Disasters
Disasters that occur due to abrupt changes in the earth systems and weather conditions are called
as  natural  disasters.  These  disasters  have  further  been  classified  into  –  Planetary  and  Extra-
Planetary Disasters.
(a) Planetary Disasters: Disasters that occur on land and in atmosphere due to changes in earth
systems or the geological conditions and atmosphere are called as Planetary Disasters. These
disasters have further been classified into – Terrestrial and Atmospheric disasters.
Disasters  that  remain  confined  to  land  and  bottoms  of  oceans  are  called  as  terrestrial
disasters. Volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, tsunamis, landslides and mine disasters are some
examples  of  terrestrial  disasters.  Atmospheric  disasters  are  caused  due  to  atmospheric
events.  Tropical  cyclones,  droughts,  floods  etc.  are  some  examples  of  atmospheric
disasters.
(b) Extra- Planetary Disasters:  Disasters  occurring  due  to  collisions  between  the  earth  and
space bodies or due to physical forces between them are called as extra-planetary disasters.
High tide waves, hurricanes, landslides, movements of rocks, changes in sea level, biological
extinctions etc. are examples of extra- planetary disasters.
13.3.2. Man-made Disasters
Disasters  that  are  caused  due  to  human  intervention  in  the  natural  processes  or  due  to  his
activities  related  to  development  and  war  are  called  as  man-  made  disasters.  Occurrence  of
epidemics, nuclear hazards, industrial accidents, biological war fares, bioterrorism etc. are man-
made or human induced disasters. In modern age, so many of the natural disasters like earthquakes
etc. have become man- made disasters due to human activities of building mega dams and large scale
developmental projects.
13.4. DISASTER MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION STRATEGIES
We know that disasters whether natural or man- made, are very dangerous and destructive. We
just can not do anything to stop a disaster, if both of the vulnerability and the hazard are existent. We
can only try our best to protect men, women, children and cattle etc. that are in distress and help them
by offering life sustaining things they need. We can prepare our people, cattle and property in advance
to escape any disaster if it occurs in future. We can only manage or mitigate a disaster.13.4.1. Meaning of Management and Mitigation of Disasters
In general sense of the word, the act or skill of dealing with people or situation in a successful
way is called as management. In case of a disaster, formulation of strategies, taking actions and
adopting processes to prevent, minimize or control the adverse impacts of a disaster at all the stages
(before, during and after) of its occurrence, is called as disaster management.
According  to  the  National  Disaster  Management  Division,  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs,
Government of India-
Disaster Management can be defined as ‘the body of policy and administrative decisions and
operational activities which pertain to the various stages of a disaster at all levels’.
Policies and measures designed and adopted to minimize impacts of a disaster, whether natural
or man- induced, is called as disaster mitigation. For a successful mitigation of a disaster, it is
important for the people to understand causes, seriousness, impacts and need of relief measures.
Mitigation relates to the reduction of the effects of hazards and conditions vulnerable to it. Hence,
mitigation activities are focused on both the hazard and elements exposed to the threats of the hazard
concerned.  The  mitigation  strategies  are  so  devised  that  they  can  modify  the  occurrence  of  a
particular hazard. Here is an example – the proper management of water, reduction of impacts and
strengthening of the structures so as to reduce damage, can be the mitigation strategies for a drought
prone area. Mitigation also relates to physical, economic and social vulnerability to a particular
hazard and underlying causes of the vulnerability.
13.4.2. Strategies for the Management and Mitigation of Disasters
The disaster management strategies can be divided into three parts-
A. Pre- disaster Management Strategies or Preparedness
B. Disaster Occurrence Management Strategies
C. Post Disaster Management Strategies
A. Pre- disaster Management Strategies or Disaster Preparedness
We can neither prevent nor avoid a disaster. However, we can reduce the extent of a disaster by
making advanced preparations. This incorporates four components- Awareness, Planning, Monitoring
and Development of Early Warning System. In fact, preparedness is a protective process. It includes
such measures which enable governments, communities and individuals to respond rapidly to the
disaster situations so as to cope with them effectively.
1. Awareness: Making people aware of vulnerability, hazard and extent of risk of a hazard can
enable them to protect themselves and their properties up to considerable extent. This can be done by
either  of  the  following  measures-  information,  education  and  communication  (IEC).  How  can
disaster awareness help the people? Well, this can help the people in following ways-
(i) It will ensure unity, co- operation and participation to fight against a particular disaster.
This is due to awareness that people may remain ready to co-operate to agencies that come
forward to help them.
(ii) Through  awareness,  people  become  able  to  protect  themselves  on  their  own  against  a
disaster.
(iii) Disaster awareness develops a sense of service among people and they remain ready tohelp their fellow citizens caught in the hazard.
(iv) This enables people, to know legal aspects of disaster control, management and mitigation.
2. Planning: It is the most important component of disaster preparedness. Planning is necessary
for getting success in every sphere of life. As for a disaster, vulnerability, extent of risk, preventive
measures, safety measures, recovery options etc. are planned in advance so as to avert disaster risk
and carry on rescue operations.
3. Monitoring: Proper care and knowledge of changing conditions and operations done during
awareness building and planning is necessary. All the programmes and plans under preparation need
to be monitored carefully so as to avoid any possible mistake.
4. Early Warning System: Early Warning Systems are developed in disaster –prone areas to
inform public to take up necessary actions soon after a hazard is suspected. For this, warning stations
are established near sea coasts, river banks, in industries etc. Warning related to abrupt weather
fluctuations are regularly transmitted to people through communication channels. India has established
various disaster warning stations in different parts of the country. As much as 250 cyclone- warning
Dissemination Centers have been established along eastern and western sea- coasts that send early
warning through communication satellites. In modern times, remote sensing satellites are effectively
employed for monitoring as well as for sending data and photographs of weather conditions. Special
automatic aircrafts are also being employed for collecting informations about the changing weather.
Preparedness also includes maintenance of inventories, training of personnel, search and rescue
measures, and evacuation plans. The preparedness planning needs to be supported by appropriate
legislation with clear allocation of responsibilities and budgetary provisions.
B. Disaster Occurrence Management Strategies
At  the  time  when  a  hazard  strikes,  the  service  groups,  government  agencies  or  social
organizations should take up all possible rescue measures to protect people and their properties. At
that time, activities are taken to ensure that needs and provisions of victims are met properly and their
suffering is minimized. These strategies are called as Emergency Response Strategies.
C. Post Disaster Management Strategies
These  strategies  include-  Damage  Assessment,  Relief  Measurement  and  Rehabilitation.
Strategies  adopted  at  this  stage  are  called  as  Response  and  Recovery  Strategies.  Under  these
strategies, activities are taken to achieve early recovery and removal of earlier vulnerable conditions.
An assessment of damage is done through surveys and baseline data collection etc. The relief and
Rehabilitation measures are done on the basis of these activities. Other activities covered under these
strategies are-
(i) Empowerment of women,
(ii) Coping  with  post  disaster  situations,  restoration  of  livelihood  with  overall  purpose  of
sustainable environment, and
(iii) A coherent mechanism should be designed for meeting the needs of children following
disasters. The rehabilitation of children should be priority, but in some cases their future
outside the village might be preferable.13.5. MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF DISASTERS
Since the disasters are both natural and Man-made, somewhat separate strategies are applied for
their management. Here are those strategies.
13.5.1. Management and Mitigation of Natural Disasters
Fig.13.2. Devastations caused by an Earthquake.
A. EARTHQUAKES: Sudden release of stresses built up in the earth’s crust cause shaking of
the earth- surface. It is called as earthquake. The intensity of an earthquake is measured on Richter
scale, which was devised in 1935 by Charles Richter of California Institute of Technology, U.S.A.
An earthquake measuring more than 5 on Richter scale (usually 7 and above) causes great damage.
The place of origin of an earthquake is called as its focus or the hypocenter where as the point on the
earth  surface  vertically  above  the  Focus  is  called  as  Epicenter.  Earthquakes  cause  physical,
biological, economic and environmental damages.
Management  and  Mitigation  (Control  Measures)  –  These  strategies  comprise  main  and
community based activities mentioned below-Fig.13.3. Retrofitting of school buildings is very important for Quake-proofing.
♦ Contractors  and  developers  of  building  constructions  must  follow  norms  fixed  for
buildings. Building constructions should not be done on soft soils.
♦ Buildings should not be constructed in vulnerable areas and those that have already been
built in such areas should be strengthened properly.
♦ Use  of  standard  quality  building  materials  and  following  Indian  Standards  Codes  for
building constructions should be kept on priority.
♦ Human habitations at high risk zones should be shifted elsewhere.
♦ People should be made aware of dos and don’ts about earthquakes and important lifeline
buildings should be strengthened to accommodate people after the earth quake. Hospitals
and Fire services should be upgraded.
♦ Community should be prepared and educated for mitigating impacts of earthquakes.
♦ Community based Earthquake Risk Management Projects should be developed. Retrofitting
of  school  buildings  and  other  important  buildings,  purchase  of  Emergency  Response
Equipments etc. should be the principal activities of such projects.
B. CYCLONES: Cyclones are extremely disastrous hazards that originate in seawater. These
are  usually  followed  by  wind  of  very  high  speed.  These  are  atmospheric  disasters  occurring  in
tropical and coastal regions in Bangla Desh and India. Cyclones of eastern U.S.A. and Caribbean
region are called as hurricanes and the same in the North Pacific Oceans are called typhoons. Local
storms are called tornados. Cyclones usually extend vertically up to 12 to 14 km and horizontally up
to 150 to 1000 km.
Management and Mitigation- Disasters due to cyclones can be prevented by adopting safetymeasures  and  by  constructing  barriers.  Some  important  measures  for  mitigation  of  cyclones  are
mentioned below-
♦ Plantation of green belts along the coastal line in a scientific interweaving pattern can
reduce the hazard due to a cyclone.
♦ Wide buffer zones of forests should be managed properly along the coastal line so that
cyclone may not run freely to penetrate inland.
♦ Meteorological records of wind speed and directions should be kept properly so as to
predict for future cyclones and to make advanced preparations. In this regard hazard
mapping is very important.
♦ Policies  should  be  made  to  regulate  land  use  and  enforcement  of  building  codes.
Vulnerable areas should be reserved for parks, grazing grounds or play grounds.
♦ Buildings in coastal areas should have high engineering inputs. Traditional homes should
be improved by building in disaster resistant features so that they can withstand cyclones
with moderate speed.
♦ Building meant for storing food supply should be protected against winds and water.
♦ Arrangement of early warning systems, construction of concrete walls along coast line,
organization of action groups and rescue squads etc. are some other important measures
to mitigate cyclones.
enviro_Facts : 13
UPWELLING OF PERUVIAN OCEAN CURRENT AND EL-NINO
There is an ocean current that flows along the Peruvian Coast. It is called as Humboldt Current, after the Prussian Explorer
Alexander von Humboldt. This ocean current serves as a classical example of an eastern boundary current and features a
typically wide and slow equator ward transport of cold water along the coast of South America.
The Peruvian Current is the largest upwelling system among the eastern boundary currents. What do you mean by
upwelling? Upwelling is a process in which cold nutrient-rich water rises to the surface from the ocean depths.
The North- western alignment of the Andes Mountain along the Peruvian Coast forces the south –east Trade Winds to
blow northwards. This condition causes an offshore flow in the surface layers of the marine water. This makes it one of the most
productive upwelling systems in the world causing cold nutrient rich water to appear along the coast. It supports an extra- ordinary
abundance of marine life. The Peruvian Ocean Current System accounts for approximately 18 to 20 percent of the tidal fish catch
worldwide. The weakening of the Peruvian Current System allows the counter current to move southwards. It disrupts the coastal
upwelling which normally occurs along the coast and creating a condition known as El-Nino. El- Niño is the warming of sea
surface temperatures in the equatorial pacific ocean which influences atmospheric circulation, and consequently rainfall and
temperature in specific areas around the world.
El-Niño is the Spanish world which means Christ Child. It indicates the appearance of a warm ocean current of the South
American Coast around the Christmas. Approximately 14 El-Niño events affected the world between 1950 and 2003. On the
reverse side, is La-Nina which is the cooling of sea surface temperatures in the equatorial Pacific Ocean, and which influences the
atmospheric circulation, and consequently the rainfall and temperature in specific areas around the world. It is the opposite of El-
Nino.
C. DROUGHTS: Failure of rains cause prolonged periods of dryness which results into crop-
failures. This condition is called as drought. Drought causes deaths of humans and cattle as they
cannot withstand dry weather. Drought enforces many populations to migrate elsewhere which creates
further problems of rehabilitation.
Management and Mitigation– Drought can be managed and mitigated in following ways-Fig 13.4. Landslides may kill many thousands of people.
♦ Management of watersheds, water- harvesting structures and other measures should be
undertaken to ensure water supplies in the area.
♦ Drought resistant crops or crops demanding less water should be cultivated in drought
prone areas to ensure food supply.
♦ Afforestation and other forestry measures should be undertaken so as to retain humidity in
the atmosphere and promote precipitation.
♦ Cutting of trees and clearing of forests should be banned.
♦ Roof top water harvesting should be adopted by every house so as to retain water for
different uses.
D. LANDSLIDES: The downhill movement oflarge amounts of soil, mud, rocks debris is called
as landslide. It causes flooding of rivers due to deposit of silt and aggravates floods. Landslides
cause maximum fatalities depending on the place and time of occurrence. Landslides may kill many
thousands of people. The landslide in Peru in 1970 killed 18000 people.
Management and Mitigation – The management and Mitigation of disasters due to landslides
can be done by adopting following measures-
♦ Clearing of forests on hill slopes must be stopped.
♦ Proper monitoring and warning systems should be developed in landslide prone areas so
as to facilitate the activities of evacuation before the disaster.
♦ Search and rescue operations should be done by special rescue squads.
♦ The assessment of damage, financial assistance to the affected people and rehabilitation
should be done in time.
♦ Retaining walls should be built to stop land from slipping.
♦ The surface drainage control works should be implemented to control the movement of soil
accompanied by infiltration of rain water and spring flows.
♦ Increasing vegetation cover, building engineering structures and insurance of people are
other measures to mitigate the disasters due to landslides.
E.  TSUNAMIS:  Tsunamis  are  towering  walls  of  marine  water  having  great  powers  of
destruction. These are usually caused due to undersea earthquakes or undersea volcanic eruptions.
Tsunami is a Japanese word which means harbor waves. These may also be caused by undersea
landslides and force of an asteroid crashing into ocean.Fig. 13.5. Tsunamis are towering walls of marine water with great power of destruction.
Management  and  Mitigation  –  The  management  and  mitigation  of  tsunami  hazards  need
specific  preparedness  measures  like  hazard  mapping,  arrangement  of  early  warning  systems  and
community participation. Main tsunami mitigation strategies should include  site  planning,  land
management and evacuation of public living in coastal areas. Residents of coastal areas should shift
their houses far beyond the coast line and they should construct houses on high ground levels. Water
breakers should be constructed to reduce the velocity of waves. For construction, water resistant and
corrosion  resistant  materials  should  be  used.  Community  halls  should  be  constructed  at  higher
locations that may act as shelters during the disasters. Sea walls should be constructed to stop the
gushing water.
F. FLOODS: Floods cause great losses to life and property every year. Occurrence of floods is
a cumulative condition which appears as accumulation of huge volumes of water in a vast area.
Management and Mitigation – Following are the measures usually adopted for the management
of disasters due to floods-
♦ Arrangement of proper warning systems to relocate people,
♦ Construction of embankments to restrict water against entering into human habitations,
♦ Ban on cutting of trees on hill slopes and on other areas as well and checking soil erosion
so as to avoid the Siltation of rivers,
♦ Proper rescue and relief operations,
♦ Mass scale tree plantation in flood prone areas.
13.5.2. Management and Mitigation of Man –made Disasters
Man –made disasters can be managed and mitigated through following general measures-
(i) The spread of epidemics can be managed by keeping healthy living conditions, proper
storage of food materials, proper storage of water, proper disposal of wastes, checking
pollutions of resources at all levels,(ii) Nuclear hazards can be prevented by proper handling and disposal of nuclear wastes,
(iii) Traffic accidents can be avoided by obeying traffic rules,
(iv) Biological,  chemical  and  industrial  disasters  can  be  prevented  by  strict  legislations,
increasing  moral  values  in  societies,  upgrading  medical  facilities,  building  up  public
awareness, proper education etc.
13.6. GOVERNMENTS’ ROLES IN DISASTER MANAGEMENT AND
MITIGATION
Though  the  institutional  and  policy  mechanisms  for  carrying  out  response,  relief  and
rehabilitation have been established in India, since Independence, the Ministry of Home Affairs
(The Government of India) created a National Disaster Management Division (NDM) on June 2002
and restructured various Disaster Management Committees on State, District and Block levels.
1. The central government has taken up various steps to strengthen Management and mitigation
instruments in the country. In case of major disasters, the Central Government is inclined to
provide financial and logistic supports and to co- ordinate the efforts of all the central
ministries, departments and organizations. The apex body is the Cabinet Committee on
National Calamities (NCMC).
2. The NCMC gives directions to the Crisis Management Groups. The Chairman of the Crisis
Management Group is the Central Relief Commissioner, Ministry of Home Affairs. This
group  reviews  contingency  plans  formulated  by  various  ministries,  departments  or
organizations and measures required for dealing with a natural disaster and co-ordinates
functions of Central Ministries and State Governments in relation to disaster preparedness
and relief.
3. The  government  of  India  has  proposed  the  organization  of  a  National  Emergency
Management Authority on the national and state levels. States have been directed to set up
Disaster  Management  Authorities  under  the  Chief  Minister  with  ministers  of  different
departments as members.
4. The Central Government has directed state governments to reorganize the Department of
Disaster Management and to form four Functional Groups and to assign those groups their
functions as below-
Hazard Mitigation - Functional Group one
Preparedness and Capacity Building - Functional Group Two
Relief and Response - Functional Group Three
Administration and Finance - Functional Group Four
5. At district level the District Magistrate is the Chief Coordinator of all activities related to
prevention, mitigation and preparedness . The District Committee is being reconstituted as
Disaster Management Committee and Disaster Management Teams are to be constituted to
work under it.
6. Different institutes have been established in different parts of India to impart training for the
development of skilled citizens for a better management and mitigation of disasters. Names
of some important institutes are mentioned below.(a) Centre for Disaster Management, Mussoorie,
(b) National Institute of Disaster Management, New Delhi,
(c) National Fire Service College, Nagpur,
Students like you, and your friends too, can play significant roles in Disaster Management. But,
how ? Here are some important tips –
1. Students can help in the preparedness and response to a disaster,
2.  Students  can  make  the  people  aware  regarding  pre-  and  post  disaster  situations  and  can
communicate through ham-radio,
3. Students can build awareness among the public about different types of natural and man-made
disasters and about how to deal with these disasters,
4. Students can help in relief work by collecting relief funds,
5. Students can help in rehabilitation of the Disaster- victims.
CHERNOBYL DISASTER
The Chernobyl nuclear power plant in the Ukraine exploded on April 26; 1986. The effects of
the explosion were felt for thousands of kilometers. The plant is located 14.5 kilometers northwest of
Chernobyl. A number of things caused the disaster at Chernobyl. First, the plant was not properly
designed, and could only be run with very specific instructions. SEcond, the operators of the plant
failed to properly follow instructions, and some scientists conducted a highly risky experiment that
led to the explosion. The scientitsts decided to conduct the experiment, and had to remove safety and
cooloing  equipment  in  order  to  do  so.  Eventually,  pressure  on  the  reactor’s  roof  blew  it  away.
Everything inside, including molten uranium, burning graphite, and radioactive ashes were emitted
into the atmosphere.
This was not a nuclear explosion. There was no chain reaction or explosion like that in an
atomic bomb. However, the amount of radioactive material released was ten times that caused by the
US  atomic  bombing  of  Hiroshima.  Radioactive  fallout  spread  throughout  Europe.  It  hit  Poland,
Germany, Belgium, France, and Holland, and then shifted towards the Balkans and Italy.
It is hard to predict just how many people were affected by the Chernobyl explosion. A British
report estimated that the radioactivity will give 2300 people cancer, though others think the number is
much higher. It was an important lesson for us that maximum care, skill and safety measures are
essential while working with nuclear plants and devices.
13
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
The  Government  of  India  has  given  special  emphasis  on  the  management  and  mitigation  of  disasters  in  the  country.
Accordingly, a number of special attempts have been taken in different sectors.
In the field of education the government has directed to Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), other Boards and
National Council of Educational Research & Training (NCERT), New Delhi to include Disaster Management in the curriculum. In
Tenth Five Year Plan, the Planning Commission of India has given Stress on Disaster Management and Mitigation while dealing with
developmental aspects .This subject has been included in the training programmes of police and para military forces also. The
government has also organized a special task force named National Emergency Response Force for rescue and mitigation operations.
A component of Disaster Management has been included in the training programmes of Indian Civil Services also.
A Disaster Risk Management Programme has been started with the assistance of United Nations Development Programme.
The programme covers 169 districts of 17 hazard prone states of India. The Government has also joined hands with a number of
International agencies for co-operations in the field of Training and Capacity building for Disaster Management and Mitigation. Asia
Disaster Reduction Centre (ADRC) Japan, Indo-Swiss Agreement for co-operation and Asian Disaster Management Centre aresome names of such Organizations.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
DISASTER : A set of terrible and unexpected events that occur due to natural or human
induced reasons and cause severe losses to life, property and environment up
to such an extent that the affected society becomes unable to cope up with
resources of its own, is called as a disaster.
VULNERABILITY : The extent to which anything is likely to be damaged or disrupted by the
impact of a particular type of hazard is called as vulnerability.
HAZARD : Any  dangerous  condition  or  event  that  threatens  or  has  the  potential  for
causing damage to life, property or environment is called as a hazard.
RISK : The measure of expected losses that are to be caused by a hazard of some
particular magnitude over any specific time in a given area is called as risk.
DISASTER MANAGEMENT : The  body  of  policy  and  administrative  decisions  and  operational  activities
which pertains to various stages of a disaster at all levels is called as disaster
management.
MITIGATION : All the measures taken to reduce both the hazard itself and the vulnerable
conditions to it in order to reduce the scale of a future disaster is called as
disaster.
PREPAREDNESS : The protective process which comprises measures that enable governments,
communities  and  individuals  to  respond  rapidly  to  a  disaster  to  cope  it
effectively is called as preparedness.
HAZARD MAPPING : The activity of illustrating areas vulnerable to hazard in a given time is called
as hazard mapping. A hazard map is prepared with designated areas expected
to be damaged by a hazard.
EPICENTER : The point on the earth surface vertically above the focus of an earthquake is
called as epicenter.
TSUNAMI : Towering walls of marine water caused due to geological activities in the
bottom of a sea or due to the force of an asteroid crashing into ocean is called
as tsunami. Tsunami waves have great powers of destruction.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Make a mention of any one dangerous location which is vulnerable to a cyclonic hazard.
2. Who is the head of a National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) at Central Level.?
3. Name anyone human induced disaster.
4. What is done to reduce the velocity of sea-water in coastal areas?
5. How can you avoid Traffic Accidents ?
6. Name the Warm ocean current that flows along Peruvian coast. What effect does it have in this area?
(ICSE 2005)
7. What is the meaning of ‘Tsunami’?
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
[2 Marks Each]
1. Define-
(a) Vulnerability
(b) Hazard
(c) Risk
2. What is a disaster?
3. Define Disaster management and Disaster Mitigation.4. What is preparedness? What are different components of pre disaster Management strategies?
5. How can the following factors cause vulnerability? Think and answer
(a) Age & Sex
(b) Poverty
(c) Unsafe locations
6. What is Risk? Give an example.
7. What is a post disaster management strategy ? What are its components ?
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 Marks Each)
1. “When vulnerability meets a hazard, the disaster is sure to occur”? Explain with any two examples.
2. What are various pre and post Disaster Management strategies? Describe giving appropriate examples
3. What is the role of government in mitigating disasters in India?
4. What is disaster management? Discuss the role students can play in disaster management.
(ICSE 2007)
5. Suggest Four control measures for an earthquake.
(ICSE 2008)
6. The chernobyl disaster was an important lesson for us. Write briefly on this disaster.
(ICSE 2010)
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. A disaster is-
(a) a periodic event
(b) an unprecedented event
(c) an atmospheric event
(d) a social event
2. Vulnerability and Hazard meet to cause-
(a) preparedness
(b) risk
(c) tsunami
(d) disaster
3. Disasters that remain confined conferred to land and bottom of oceans are called as-
(a) atmospheric Disasters
(b) terrestrial Disasters
(c) land- oceanic Disasters
(d) man-made Disasters
4. Policies and measures designed and adopted to minimize impacts of disaster whether natural or man-induced is called-
(a) politics
(b) disaster-policy
(c) impact of a disaster
(d) disaster minimization.
5. The downhill movement of large amounts of soil, mud and debris is called as-
(a) soil erosion
(b) landslide
(c) soil movement
(d) hazard
B. Fill in the blanks
1. When vulnerability meets a Hazard the ………… is bound to occur.
2. Poverty is an important factor which causes …………… .
3. Children and women remain more vulnerable to …………… .
4. A bird’s nest on the branch of a tree near a high voltage electric wire passing close to it is in a ……………location which
increases its……………to the hazard of electric shock.
5. Sudden release of stress built up in the earth’s crust causing shaking of earth’s surface is called …………………………… .C. True / False
Write T against the statement which is True and F against the statement which is False-
1. Retrofitting of school buildings located in risk zones is necessary for protection against earthquakes.
2. Forestry measures like afforestation and Social Forestry have nothing to do with drought conditions.
3. Tropical storms of eastern U.S.A. and Caribbean region are called Hurricanes.
4. Landslides always occur in the plains of Uttar Pradesh.
5. Traffic accidents can be avoided by keeping away from the traffic.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. housing close to coast line, 2. Cabinet Secretary, 3.epidemic, 4.construction of water breakers, 5. by obeying traffic rules,
6. Humboldt current, It produces upwelling effect along the peruvian coast. 7. “Harbor wave”
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1. (b), 2.(d), 3.(b), 4. (d), 5. (b),
B. Fill in the blanks
1. disaster, 2. vulnerability, 3. hazards, 4. dangerous, vulnerability, 5.earthquake.
C. True / False
1. T, 2.F, 3.T, 4.F, 5. F.
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
13.1. COLLECTION/ COMPILATION
Collect data and other informations about any two different cases of disaster that occurred during last ten years in India.
13.2. POSTER PREPARATION
Prepare a colorful poster showing pre-disaster management / activities undertaken during a disaster and post Disaster
Management activities on any one type of Natural Disaster.4
STRIVING FOR A
BETTER ENVIRONMENT
14. Sustainable Environment
15. Consumer Education
16. Ecological Restoration and Conservation

CHAPTER14
Sustainable Environment
FACTS & CONCEPTS
u Introduction : International Co-operation
u Concept of Sustainability and Sustainable Environment
u Use of Efficient and Eco-Friendly Technologies
u Emerging Eco-Friendly Technologies
u Available Eco-Friendly Technologies
u Sustainable Use of Resources
u Adoption of Indigenous Practices-Sacred Groves
u Some Examples of Indigenous Practices
u Sacred Groves14.1. INTRODUCTION : INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION
The World Commission on Environment and Development (WECD) reported in 1987 –‘the
present decade (1980s) has been marked by a retreat from social concerns. Scientists bring to our
attention urgent but complex problems bearing on our survival: a warming globe, threats to the
earth’s ozone layer, deserts consuming agricultural land. We respond by demanding more details,
and by assigning the problems to institutions ill equipped to cope with them.’
The decade of 1980s observed a number of new discoveries like-
(i) Measurement of the size of ozone hole by British Researchers in 1985,
(ii) The U.S. Government’s Report entitled Global-2000, recognized that species extinction
was threatening biodiversity,
(iii) Adoption of World Charter for Nature by the General Assembly of United Nations
(1982), made clear that environment and development were interdependent, and
(iv) The realization of intrinsic values of Species and Ecosystems through the World Charter for
Nature (1982).
In spite of these developments the decade of 1980s experienced severe industrial accidents that
left permanent marks on environment and human health. Some examples are mentioned below-
A. The leakage of the Methyl Iso Cynate (MIC) in 1984 from one of the Union Carbide’s plants
located in Bhopal, India, killed 3000 people and injured 2000.
B. Up to one million people died of hunger in Ethiopia during 1984-85.
C. The  world’s  worst  nuclear  accident  occurred  when  a  reactor  at  the  Chernobyl  Nuclear
Power Plant, exploded in the Ukrainian Republic of Soviet Union on Saturday, April 26,
1986.
D. The spill of 50 million Litres of oil from Exxon Valdez super tanker into Alaska’s Prince
William in 1989 reflected that even the remotest areas on the globe are unsafe due to human
activities.
A World Industry Conference was organized in 1984 by United Nations in Canada. It was the
first attempt to provide a code of conduct for sound management in the business sector. As a result of
this the concept of Sustainable Development and Eco- friendly Technology or Eco-efficiency was
introduced in the area of development. Some of the major objectives of eco-efficiency are (1)
Judicious use of fossil fuels, (2) Reduction of pollution load, (3) Maximum production (4) Reduction
of man-power-wastage; and (5) Sustainable Development.
To make the environment sustainable, a number of measures are necessary to be taken up by the
people and government across the globe. Some of these measures are- use of efficient and eco-
friendly technologies, sustainable use of resources and adoption of indigenous practices like
keeping of sacred groves. Here in this chapter, we are going to discuss these tough issues in most
simple ways.
14.2. CONCEPT OF SUSTAINABILITY AND SUSTAINABLE
ENVIRONMENT
It is being felt that the process of modern development is defective one. It is creating varioustypes of stresses on the environment due to which a number of local, regional and global problems
have emerged out that challenge the existence of human beings and other organisms on this planet.
Some of the environmental problems that have been created due to stress caused on environment
by modern developments are being listed below-
(1) Destruction of forests.
(2) Falling underground water table.
(3) Rise in global temperature and climate change.
(4) Extinction of animal and plant species.
(5) Large scale migration of people.
(6) Great financial inequality.
(7) Reduction in the means of livelihood for the poor.
(8) Scarcity of food.
(9) Increasing number of disasters.
Besides  above  mentioned  problems,  the  process  of  modern  development  is  creating  gender
inequality and imbalances in sex-ratio. In view of these problems it is thought that the current process
of development cannot go for long. This means it is unsustainable.
Keeping  in  mind  the  unsustainable  nature  of  modern  development,  scientists  and
environmentalists  the  world  over,  have  thought  out  a  new  model  of  development  called  as
sustainable development.
Such a new model of development which benefits every individual, safeguards environmental
rights of every citizen and which may keep the natural environment in a perfectly balanced state is
called as sustainable development.
Sustainable Development has following basic objectives-
(i) Respect and care for living beings.
(ii) Improvement in the quality of human life.
(iii) Establishing equity in the distribution and sharing of resources.
(iv) Planning and implementing projects on Gender Equality.
(v) Minimizing the depletion of resources.
(vi) Changing attitudes for Environmental conservation.
(vii) Caring and sharing of the natural resources.
14.3. USE OF EFFICIENT AND ECO-FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES
The word efficient technology in the present context means such a technology which derives
maximum  through  the  utilization  of  minimum  resource  with  negligible  quantity  of  wastage.  Old
machines often consume lots of fuels and generate lots of wastes without liberation of sufficient
energy. Thus we cannot afford to waste our resource by making use of old and inefficient technology.
An ecofriendly technology is one that can be employed for the developmental works without
causing any harm to any part of the natural environment. Rather, such a technology supports the
balance of environment alongwith doing the needful.
The selection of an appropriate technology for a particular purpose depends on following
important factors-
(i) The cost of technology should be low.(ii) It should be selected keeping in view the demand of electricity on local level.
(iii) It should be supported by government.
(iv) It should be based on locally available resources.
14.3.1. Available Eco-Friendly Technologies
Some of the significant ecofriendly technologies used in modern times are discussed below-
A. Wind Power: India has a Wind Energy Potential of 45,000 MW. The capital cost of a single
wind power plant ranges from Rs. 4.0 to 4.5 Crore/MW and the cost of power generation through
wind power plant is expected to decline in the cost of a power plant as- Improvements in Technology,
Increase in the size of turbine & optimal planning and site selection. 80% of the power generated
through wind systems is of captive in nature.
B. Small Hydro- Power: The total installed capacity of small hydro-power is 63 MW. However
there is a drastic increase to 226 MW within a period of only ten years. These small hydro-power
stations are located in hilly areas and canal drops. Most of these plants are connected to grid. Some
of the small hydro-plants in India are run by Non-Government Organizations or by local communities.
C.  Biomass  Power:  Primary  power  generation  technologies  applied  in  the  generation  of
Biomass Power are – gasification, co-generation and Direct Combustion. So far, about a total of 34
units aggregating to upto 210 MW capacity co-generation plants have been commissioned whereas 26
units aggregating to 237 MW capacity is under implementation. Of the total energy supplied world
wide  the  biomass  power  generation  is  about  14%  out  of  this,  38%  is  consumed  in  developing
countries comprising rural and traditional sectors. Major applications of biomass power are – direct
or indirect heating, pumping water for irrigation, power generation, rural electrification and
industrial uses.
D.  Energy  from  Wastes:  The  basic  concept  behind  generating  energy  from  wastes  is  the
reduction of wastes. The technologies so far available for the recovery of energy from wastes, are-
Anaerobic Digestion, Bio-methanation, landfill gas recovery, incineration and intensification or
pelletization.  Other  ecofriendly  technologies  for  deriving  energy  from  wastes  are  pyrolysis,
gasification, alcohol fermentation, slurry carb process and plasma.
E. Solar Energy Technologies: Solar Water Heating, Solar Cookers, Solar Air Heating, Solar
thermal  heating,  Solar  thermal  building  design  are  some  important  non-grid  solar  thermal
technologies applied in India and other countries.
F. Hybrid and Stand-alone System: Combination of two different energy technologies is
called as Hybrid System. Under this scheme solar photovoltaic system and wind electric generators
can  be  combined  to  produce  energy.  During  cloudy  days  wind  electric  generation  is  useful  for
optimum  supply  whereas  during  low  wind  conditions  solar  photovoltaic  system  can  be  used
effectively. Wind water pumps, wind battery chargers and chemical storage comprise stand-alone
Wind technologies.
G.  Rural  Energy  Technologies:  Some  technologies  mostly  used  in  rural  areas  are  being
introduced below-
(I) Biogas: Biogas generation is the most important, clean and eco-friendly technology for
rural areas. The biogas plant installation potential of India is 12 million plants out of which
3.1 million plants have so far been installed different parts of the country. Two types of
Biogas plants are most commonly used in the country and they are of fixed drum andfloating drum types. Equipments like stoves, burners, lamps etc. are available indigenously.
(II) Improved Chulhas or the Energy Efficient Wood Stoves: Wood-stoves are scientifically
designed wood burning devices designed for optimal regulation of heat flow as well as
better fuel utilization. These wood stoves, conserve fuel wood, reduce air pollution, help
in checking tree fellings, reduce health hazards, save cooking time, provide employment
opportunities to rural poor and upgrade the environment.
14.3.2. Emerging Eco-friendly Technologies
A. Fuel Cells: Fuel cells are suited for decentralized power generation due to their modular
nature. Hydrogen or any other inflammable gas is used as primary fuel in these fuel cells.
India is focusing on the development of such an ecofriendly technology that can be applied
for generating electricity alongwith the protection of water & heat. The application of fuel
cells include – production of electricity, water and heat; Industrial and residential uses,
surface  transportation  electrification  in  remote  areas  and  power  supplies  for  personal
computers, health clinics etc.
Fig. 14.1. A Fuel Cell.
B. Hydrogen Energy: Hydrogen is a clean fuel and good source of energy. It is a possible
substitute to fossil fuels and can be used as fuel for vehicular transport. A hydrogen fuel cell
vehicle may be able to travel for 5,000 km between refuelling shops. Hydrogen is used in
rocket and spacecraft propulsion also.
Scientists are on their ways of developing Carbon nano- fibre technology (CNF). It has a
capacity to store upto 70% of hydrogen by weight.
C. Geothermal energy: It is the heat of the earth which is enormously available. It is clean,
reliable and home-grown. The energy of the earth can be converted into heat and electricity.
There are more than 300 potential sites for geothermal energy in India out of which Tattapani
Geothermal fields, Chattisgarh and Puga Geothermal fields and Ladakh (J & K) have been
earmarked for tapping.Fig.14.2. A Geothermal Energy Station.
D. Tidal Energy: Tides, ocean thermal energy, ocean waves and ocean currents are different
forms of energy. Scientists have identified many areas of tidal energy that include Gulf of
kachchh  and  Gulf  of  Cambay  in  Gujarat,  Durgaduani  creek  and  a  delta  of  Ganga  in
Sundarban area in West Bengal.
Fig.14.3. A Tidal Energy Generation System.
E. Alternate  Fuel  for  Surface  Transport:  This  technology  is  still  in  the  research  phase.
Material technology development, performance improvement, cost reduction, eco-friendly
electric  and  alternate  energy  or  hydrogen  energy  vehicles  and  Advanced  high  density
batteries for electric vehicles are examples of some areas of development of this technology.
14.4. SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES
An  approach  to  economic  planning  that  attempts  to  foster  economic  growth  while
preserving  the  quality  of  the  environment  for  future  generations,  is  called  as  sustainable
development.The quality of the environment for future generations can only be maintained by sustainable use
of resources provided by nature. But what is the meaning of sustainable use of resources? Well, in
simple ways; the judicious use of resources so that the natural process of regeneration of those
resources are not hampered or altered, and every one of the present and future generations may have
his proper share of resources, is called as sustainable use of resources.
The practice of sustainable use of resources should incorporate following components- (i)
Search for alternate source of energy, (ii) Development of Renewable Resources, (iii) Judicious use
of Natural Resources, (iv) Adoption of environment friendly technologies, (v) Participation of public
in decision making processes, (vi) Keeping up the balance in nature.
Example: If we cut some extra branches of a tree for keeping it up in a proper shape and use the
cut out parts as fuel wood we make use of the tree in a sustainable way. But if we cut a tree through
its main stem and use it for fuel wood we kill the tree forever. This is destruction of a resource which
is the tree in this case. The same example may be applied for other resources also.
Renewable resources of nature  like  vegetation  can  be  renewed  through  proper  use.  Non-
renewable resources cannot be renewed in our life time. Since we are going on overusing and
wasting our non-renewable resources we are sure to be captured by a crisis one day. We are already
facing crisis of resources in many sectors like the energy sector. To overcome the scarcity of energy
we have to develop alternate sources. Side by side we should adopt the practice of recycling and
reuse of existing resources. All the renewable resources too need to be used judiciously so as to keep
up the running of the regeneration capacity of nature.
enviro_Facts: 14
The General Assembly of United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP-1988) established a World Commission on
Environment & Development in 1988. This commission is also known as the Brundtland Commission, which was formed to hold
hearings across the globe and produce a formal report of its findings. The commission completed its findings as a report entitled
“Our Common Future”. The sustainable Development in the report has been defined as-
Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their
own needs” (WCED 1987). Some International Conferences like the Earth Summit (1992) continuously focussed attention on
Environmental Issues. It produced a declaration of principles called as Rio - declaration on Environment and Development which
st
was a plan for the sustainable development of the Resources of the Earth into the 21  century. That is why it was called as
Agenda-21. The Agenda-21 also included guidelines for management, conservation and sustainable development of forests. The
subsequent conferences of United Nations continued to incorporate sustainable development with social issues in their programmes.
14.5. ADOPTION OF INDIGENOUS PRACTICES; SACRED GROVES
The word indigenous means: belonging to a particular place; or nature. Indigenous Practices
means practices developed and properly applied by native people of a particular area.
The  ideas  that  have  been  worked  upon  by  our  local  people  can  help  us  to  meet  the  future
challenges and to achieve a sustainable development. Adoption of such practices, therefore, assumes
ample importance. Many types of indigenous practices have been popular in our traditional societies
in the areas of agriculture and food, health and hygiene, energy and materials. Now we should find,
test and popularise, if found worth, our indigenous practices. While popularising such practices our
approach  need  not  necessarily  be  traditional  only  but  it  may  also  include  current  practices  of
development and contributions of institutions of our country.
14.5.1. Some Examples of Indigenous PracticesA lot of indigenous practices are popularly known and applied in Indian Societies in the fields
of agriculture, health and hygiene, energy, materials( metals & metallurgy, timber and wood, use of
glass,  ceramics  and  refractory,  soil,  stone,  textile  and  fabrics  etc.  ).  Some  of  these  indigenous
practices are mentioned below-
(i) Traditional water management systems like-
• Digging  of  ponds  and  check  dams  (in  Bihar,  Jharkhand,  Uttar  Pradesh,  Madhya
Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal and many other states.) and collecting rain water for
domestic purposes.
• Digging of Erys (small ponds with earthen embankments from three sides in Tamil
Nadu), Chunwas (small water ponds) in low land areas of Jharkhand, Kunds (in
Rajasthan) etc.
(ii) Summer season cultivation of fields in plains of India.
(iii) Applications of Manual Irrigation Systems.
(iv) Planting Twigs in fields, as Singing Posts for birds.
(v) Planting scare-crows in fields and beating drums in fields at nights to protect crops from
cattle.
(vi) Use of Neem leaves and lime for safe storage of grains.
(vii) Worshipping different animals and protecting them as vahanas of Gods and Goddesses.
(viii) Regarding some grasses like durva (or Doob = Cyanodon dactylon) as Sacred.
(ix) Protecting  Neem  trees  as  habitat  of  Sheetala  Mata  (a  form  of  Goddess  Durga)  and
worshipping Banyan and Peepal trees.
(x) Protection of trees of Karam and Sal by people of Jharkhand.
(xi) Worshipping of Sun on the occasion of ‘Surya Shashti’; cleaning of traditional ponds for the
holy bath of the worshipper and cleaning of surroundings during a festival by the people of
Jharkhand & Bihar.
(xii) Keeping,  protecting  and  worshipping  Sacred  Groves  by  the  people  of  different  Indian
States. Example : Management of orans or sacred Groves of Khejri by Bisnol Tribes of
Indian State of Rajasthan.
Fig.14.4. Worshiping the Sun God on the occasion of Surya Shashti is a traditional practice of Nature Worship specially in Bihar and
Jharkhand (the two Indian States).14.5.2. Sacred Groves
A. What are Sacred Groves?
The word sacred means: considered to be holy or ‘connected with a god’ and the word ‘Grove’
means: a small area of land with trees of particular types grown on it. Thus by combining these two
words the final dictionary meaning of the couple of words Sacred Groves is: “A small area of land
with particular types of trees grown on it and that are considered to be holy by the local human
community”.
In other words Sacred Groves can be defined as below-
An area with particular types of trees dedicated to local deities or ancestral spirits that are
protected by local communities through social traditions and taboos incorporating spiritual and
ecological values are called as sacred groves.
B. Sacred Groves of India
The presence of sacred groves of India has been documented since the early 1800s. Sacred
Groves of India comprise trees like Deodara (Cedrus deodara), considered to be the “abode of
Gods”, Sal (Shorea robusta), Rudraksha (Elacocarpus species), Bel (Aegle marmelos), and Ashok
(Saraca asoca), and kadam (Anthocephalus kadamba), Pipal (Ficus religiosa), Neem (Azadirachta
indica), Banyan tree (Ficus benghalensis:  native  to  India),  Mango  tree  (Mangifera indica)  and
bushes like, Basil (Ocimum basilicum & Ocimum minimum; (native to India and Iran) and grass like
Doob or Durva (Cynodon dactylon) etc.
Fig.14.5. Sacred Grove.
In  India  most  of  the  sacred  groves  are  planted  around  artificially  dug  sacred  ponds.  This
condition creates a system of pool and sacred grove. Many of the sacred trees are associated with
individual deities for example Pipal is associated with Lord Vishnu; Bel with Shiva; and Rudraksha
with an incarnation of Shiva, Lord Rudra. Small temples are also constructed at the pool-grove areas.
C. Sacred Groves Outside India
Many sacred groves are found scattered in isolated pockets in Britain, Europe, Asia and Africa.
In Britain dead bodies are buried in the grounds of sacred groves and the practice is called as “Green
Burials”. This practice is also adopted by United States. There are about 130 forested burial groundsin Britain.
D. Importance of Sacred Groves
(i) Sacred Groves provide shelter to thousands of species of other plants and animals.
(ii) Sacred groves have great powers to heal body and spirit.
(iii) Sacred Groves are important reservoirs of biodiversity.
(iv) These are last refuse for endemic and endangered plant and animal species.
(v) These are storehouses of Medicinal plants valuable to village communities as well as
modern pharmacopoeia.
(vi) Sacred  Groves  contain  relatives  of  crop  species  that  can  help  to  improve  cultivated
varieties.
(vii) Sacred Groves help in keeping the water cycle in local areas.
(viii) These improve soil stability, prevent top-soil erosion and provide irrigation for agriculture
in drier climates.
14
TOWARDS A BETTER ENVIRONMENT…
In 1999 the Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya (The National Museum of Mankind) established a museum for
sacred groves with the goal of raising awareness of the importance of sacred groves. In Bhopal a campus of 200 acres is
dedicated to sacred groves of different parts of India. Festivals and rituals associated with each type of sacred grove are also
celebrated by communities there. In Goa a sacred grove restoration project has also been undertaken by the Society for
Ecological Restoration- India. The bio-diversity of sacred groves is being documented and catalogued through many national and
regional projects in India so as to prevent outsiders from patenting local species and traditional knowledge. A web-interfaced
multimedia database is also being prepared by HCL centre for biodiversity informatics to document the biodiversity status of
sacred groves in India.
IMPORTANT DEFINITIONS
MIC : Methyl Iso Cynate, a gas, leakage of which from Union Carbide factory in
1984 killed about 3000 people and injured about 2000 in Bhopal, India.
WORLD  INDUSTRY : The conference organised by United Nations in Canada in 1984 after a series
CONFERENCE of industrial accidents in different parts of the world. The conference was
organised to provide a code of conduct for sound management in the business
sector.
SUSTAINABLE : A new model of development which benefits every individual, safeguards
DEVELOPMENT environmental  rights  of  every  citizen  and  which  may  keep  the  natural
environment  in  a  perfectly  balanced  state  is  called  as  sustainable
development.
ECO-  FRIENDLY : Technologies that can be employed for the developmental works without
TECHNOLOGIES causing any harm to any part of the natural environment, are called as Eco-
friendly Technologies.
INDIGENOUS PRACTICES : Practices that are developed and properly applied by native people of a
particular area are called as indigenous practices.
SACRED GROVES : Area with particular types of trees dedicated to local deities or ancestral
spirits that are protected by local communities through social traditions and
taboos  incorporating  spiritual  and  ecological  values  are  called  as  sacredgroves.
MODEL QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. Where did the spill from the super tanker Exxon Valdez occurred into Alaska’s Prince Williams?
2. Name any one Eco- friendly Technology.
3. Mention two objectives of Eco-Efficiency.
(ICSE 2008)
4. ‘Many indigenous technologies are popular in our traditional societies in the areas of water conservation’- Name any one of such
technologies.
5. What do you mean by a Sacred Grove?
6. Which Sacred Grove is considered to be the abode of Gods?
II. SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
[2 Marks Each]
1. What is sustainable development? What are its objectives?
(ICSE 2007)
2. Define Sustainable Development.
(ICSE 2010)
3. What do you mean by Eco- friendly Technology?
4. What do you mean by the efficient use of Resources?
5. Name any three of the emerging Eco- friendly technologies. Describe any one of them.
6. Define Sacred Grove. Mention names of any two states where sacred groves are found.
(ICSE 2007)
7. What is an indigenous technology? Give one example.
8. Mention any four significant features of Sacred Groves.
III. DETAILED ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
(4 to 6 Marks Each)
1. Describe any three ways by which international co-operation can help in achieving a sustainable future.
(ICSE 2010)
2. What is Sustainable Environment? How do Eco-friendly Technologies and indigenous practices help in maintaining sustainability
of environment?
3. What are Sacred Groves? Mention some of the Sacred Groves of India. How are the Sacred Groves important?
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
Tick (✓) the correct option
1. The World Commission on Environment and Development which was formed in 1983, is also known as –
(a) The Brundtland Commission
(b) World Meteorological Organisation
(c) The World Commission on Floods
(d) World Industry Conference
2. The United Nations adopted the World Charter for Nature in the year-
(a) 1989
(b) 1982
(c) 1999
(d) 1987
3. The first International attempt by United Nations to provide a code of conduct for the sound management in the business sector
was made in Canada in 1984. It was called as-
(a) World Trade Organisation
(b) World Industry Conference
(c) World Commission on Environment and Development(d) World Charter for Nature
4. One of the conditions for eco-friendly technology is –
(a) its cost should be low
(b) it can be applied by all nations
(c) it can be applied in rural areas only
(d) it should be available to all sections of society
5. Bisnoi Tribes of the Indian State of Rajasthan manage Orans which means –
(a) sacred groves of mango
(b) sacred groves of Khejri
(c) sacred groves of Neem
(d) sacred groves of Sal
B. Fill in the Blanks
1. Up to one million people died of hunger in Ethiopia during the year … that coincides with the Chernobyl Nuclear Disaster in
Ukrainian Republic of Soviet Union.
2. The process of modern development is creating economic …………… .
3. An ………… Technology can be employed for developmental works without causing any harm to any part of the natural
environment.
4. 80% of the power generated through wind systems is ………… in nature.
5. CNF in the field of technological developments stands for …………… .
C. True / False Questions
Write T against the statement which is True and F against the statement which is False-
1. The Hybrid and Stand-alone System of Technology is the combination of two energy technologies.
2. The Biogas installation potential of India is 500 million plants.
3. The practice of sustainable development involves participation of public in decision making process.
4. Erys in Tamil Nadu are small ponds with earthen embankments from two sides.
5. Rudraksha is considered to be an incarnation of Shiva, Lord Rudra.
ANSWERS
I. VERY SHORT ANSWER TYPE QUESTIONS
1. 1985, 2.Biogas generation, 3. Judicious use of fossil fuels and maximum production, 4. Construction of ponds, 5. A small
area of land with trees of religious significance, 6. Deodara.
IV. OBJECTIVE TYPE QUESTIONS
A. Multiple Choice Type Questions
1. (a), 2.(b), 3.(b), 4.(a), 5.(b)
B. Fill in the Blanks
1.1984, 2.inequalities, 3.eco- friendly, 4.captive, 5. Carbon nano-fibre Technology
C. True/ False
1. T, 2. F, 3. T, 4. F, 5. T
PROJECTS & ACTIVITIES
Act for Environment
14.1. SURVEY
Do a survey of indigenous technologies applied in your area. Find out the ways through which these technologies are better in
comparison to modern technologies applied for the similar purposes. Write a survey report.
14.2. PROJECT
Do a project on the topic: Listing of locally available medicinal plants and their importance to society. Write the Project –
report.

CHAPTER15
Consumer Education
FACTS & CONCEPTS
♦ Introduction : Who is a Consumer?
♦ Consumer Education
♦ Consumer Rights
♦ Legislations for the Protection of Consumers
♦ Provisions Made by United Nations
♦ Legislative Provisions Made by Government of India
♦ Making Correct Choices While Buying
♦ General Observations by Consumers
♦ Looking for Standards, Seals and Marks
♦ Food Adulteration
15.1. INTRODUCTION : WHO IS A CONSUMER?
A  person,  who  consumes  or  uses  different  types  of  goods  and  services,  is  called  as
consumer. Goods that a consumer buys, may include consumable goods like rice, salt, sugar,
vegetables etc. or Durable Consumer Goods like television, bicycle, scooter etc. Services that aconsumer may buy include electric power, telephone, transport services, theatre etc. Anyone
who obtains goods or services for resale or for any commercial purpose (except self employment) or
one who obtains any service free of charge or under a contract of personal service is not called a
consumer.
15.2. CONSUMER EDUCATION
A process of teaching, training and learning to improve knowledge and develop skills among
consumers,  is  called  as  Consumer  Education.  The  Consumer  Education  relates  to  imparting
knowledge to and developing skills in consumers regarding consumer rights, consumer laws, product
quality-standards, health aspects of various products, availabilities of various public and private
services, units and measurements, redressal of consumer problems and making correct choices while
buying different commodities etc.
The Consumer Education covers following areas-
• Health, Nutrition, food-borne diseases and food- adulteration,
• Product hazards like hazards due to storage and consumption of a particular product,
• Product  labelling  -  pasting  labels  on  the  packaging  of  products  regarding  their
composition status, weight, ecological impacts, purity standards, colour, preservatives
used,  date  of  manufacture  and  expiry,  address  of  producer/  manufacturer,  matters
pertaining to registration, trade marks, marks of standards etc.
• Protective Laws – Laws framed by the government to protect rights of consumers and
seeking redressal, how and whom to approach for redressal etc.
• Information regarding weight, measure, packaging, price quality and availability of basic
needs etc.
• Environment, different types of pollutions, sustainable consumption etc.
15.3. CONSUMER RIGHTS
1. Right to SAFETY against hazardous goods and services
2. Right to be INFORMED about the quality, quantity, purity and standard price
3. Right to CHOOSE from a variety at competitive prices
4. Right to be HEARD
5. Right to seek REDRESSAL.
6. Right to CONSUMER EDUCATION
The above consumer rights are being explained below-
1. RIGHT TO SAFETY AGAINST HAZARDOUS GOODS AND SERVICES
This right protects consumers against hazardous products and services. The product offered for
sale should not pose undue risk or physical harm to consumers or their family members. Impure food,
defectively  manufactured  automobiles  and  tyres,  drugs  having  harmful  side  effects  and  unsafe
appliances can cause harm, risk or injury to consumers. Consumers should observe marks of quality
standards before buying products.
2. RIGHT TO BE INFORMED
Consumers have rights to know about the quality, quantity, purity, potency, standard, price etc.about the product they go for buying. They have rights to know everything regarding the product like
composition, preservatives used, colouring agents mixed in the product, date of manufacture & expiry
date and also about nature of the product like vegetarian or non-vegetarian etc.
3. RIGHT TO CHOOSE
Consumers have been given a right to buy things of their choice and likings. They can compare
varieties and prices of products and can purchase items to the best of their satisfaction.
4. RIGHT TO BE HEARD
Consumers have been given the rights to file complaint in case of any cheating or defect in the
purchased product. They have right to seek a refund, replacement or remedy or they can file a case in
the consumer court or consumer forum.
5. RIGHT TO SEEK REDRESSAL
Consumers  have  right  to  get  protected  from  unfair  trade  practices  by  filing  complaints  in
consumer forum or court. Many consumer organizations have been formed to protect consumers and
get their problems properly redressed.
6. RIGHT TO CONSUMER EDUCATION
Every  consumer  has  the  right  of  keeping  knowledge  and  skills  regarding  purchase,  use  and
effects of products. He has a right to get educated about various products, markets and related things
so as to protect him against any possible exploitation.
15.4. LEGISLATIONS FOR THE PROTECTION OF CONSUMERS
Various Legislative Provisions for the protection of consumers have been made on International
and National levels.
15.4.1. Provisions Made by United Nations
The General Assembly of United Nations adopted following guidelines for consumers on April
9.1985-
(i) Protection of consumers.
(ii) High levels of Ethical conducts of producers/distributors of goods and services.
(iii) Develop market conditions providing consumers greater choices at lower prices. These
guidelines were expanded on July 26, 1999 to include sustainable consumption.
15.4.2. Legislative Provisions Made by the Government of India
1. Legislative provisions made before independence: These are – Indian Penal Code, Indian
Contract Act, Drugs and Cosmetics Act, Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marketing) Act. These
legislations did not contain Rights of consumers nor remedial measures in favour of consumers.
2. Consumer Protection Act 1986: This act of government of India makes following provisions
for consumers-(i) Exclusive courts for consumer disputes in all districts, states and national capital.
(ii) Specification of six consumer rights (mentioned above).
(iii) Consumer protection councils from national to state and district level.
(iv) This act covers private, public and co-operative sectors.
Besides the above, a number of laws have been passed by the government of India over the
years to protect interest of consumers. Those laws are- Agricultural Products(Grading and Marketing
) Act-1937;Industries(Development and Regulation) Act-1951; Prevention of Food Adulteration Act-
1954;  Essential  Commodities  Act-1955;  The  Standards  of  Weights  and  Measures  Act-1951;
Monopolies  and  Restrictive  Trade  Practices  (MRTP)  Act-1969  (Replaced  by  Competition  Act-
2002); Prevention of Black Marketing and Maintenance of Essential Supplies Act-1980; and Bureau
of Indian Standards Act-1986.
15.5. MAKING CORRECT CHOICES WHILE BUYING
A buyer is a person, a private business firm or a government office that chooses goods and
services and spends money to obtain them either for own use or for sale. A buyer may not be a
consumer in all the cases. Any one who uses or consumes a product is called as consumer. We buy
commodities to meet our requirement, to raise our standards of living, to use quality products, to
respond to changes in trade and fashions, to fulfil our social requirements, to maintain durable goods
in working conditions or to run a business.
15.5.1. General Observations by Consumers:
Consumer must check following things before buying anything-
1.  Verification  Certificate:  All  shops  using  weights  and  measures  must  display  an  ILM
(Inspector of Legal Metrology) verification certificate. A weighting balance must be must be made of
metal and it should also have a straight pointer. Every weight has to be stamped on the reverse with
last two digits of the year and the unit number of the inspector. A consumer must refuse non-standard
weight like stones, iron pieces etc. and if the lead filling on the reverse is not there.
2. Balance and Weights:
(i) Any balance and scale if it is made of wood with strings to suspend the pans is illegal.
(ii) The consumer must verify the verification scale on a plate fixed to an electric weighting
instrument
(iii) Weight of the tray is not included with the material to be brought.
3. Buying Clothes, Alcohol and Sweets
(i) A consumer must check the measuring rod while buying cloth. He must see that it is made of
steel and it has ILM’s seal at either end.
(ii) Packed readymade garments should have sizes mentioned only in cms. and not the XXL,
XL, L, M, S etc.
(iii) For dispensing alcohol the peg measure must be of glass or silver plated brass can. Volume
of standard peg is 60 ml.
(iv) Sweets having sugar syrup must be sold by weight & not by numbers.(v) Weighting scales at ration shops and jewellery shop must be close to the consumer.
(vi) Jewellery shops must use Class I or Class II balances protected from any disturbance.
(vii) Consumers  must  insist  on  HALLMARK  gold  ornaments  having  BIS  logo  and  marked
fitness.
4. Buying Packaged Commodity:  While  packaged  commodities  a  consumers  must  see  that
package carries –
• Name and address of manufacturer and packer.
• Net quantity of the package when packed.
• Number of items contained in the package when it is to be sold by number.
• Month and year of manufacturing, expiry date and “best before’ (the date)
• If it is imported the package must bear the name and address of the importer alongwith
valid registration number.
• Consumer must know that no pre-packed commodity can be sold above the declared MRP
(Maximum Retail Price) in shops, hotels, restaurants and bars (including bottled water,
soft 7 hard drinks).
5. Buying LPG: While buying LPG the consumer must check the weight with the spring balance
which must be available with the distributor. The net quantity is 14.2 Kg and the wt. of the empty
cylinder is 15 to 17 kg.
6. Buying Petroleum, Oil, and Lubricants (P.O.L.): Consumers should keep in mind that fuel
stations must display conspicuously a verified 5 litre can by which you can measure the quantity of
the actual supply. To check the accuracy of the dispensing unit every fuel station must have a Totaliser.
The fuel station must have Anti- adulteration cell to check any complain regarding spurious oils.
7. Kerosene Oil: The consumer, while buying Kerosene oil, should check ILM’s verification on
the measure and the bottom that should have no cut mark or dent or re- welding mark. He should
ensure that the measure is filled to the top hole and it is not containing sponge or wax.
15.5.2. Looking for Standards, Seals and Marks:
A consumer must observe the following marks of standards while buying commodities-